ACT 1:1 The former account I wrote, Theophilus, told all that Jesus began to do and to teach,
ACT 1:2 until the day that he was taken up, after he had given commands through the Holy Spirit to the apostles he had chosen.
ACT 1:3 After his suffering, he presented himself alive to them with many convincing proofs. For forty days he appeared to them, and he spoke about the kingdom of God.
ACT 1:4 When he was meeting together with them, he commanded them not to leave Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father, about which he said, "You heard from me
ACT 1:5 that John indeed baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit in a few days."
ACT 1:6 When they were assembled together they asked him, "Lord, is this the time you will restore the kingdom to Israel?"
ACT 1:7 He said to them, "It is not for you to know the times or the seasons which the Father has determined by his own authority.
ACT 1:8 But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you, and you will be my witnesses both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the ends of the earth."
ACT 1:9 When the Lord Jesus had said these things, as they were looking up, he was raised up, and a cloud hid him from their eyes.
ACT 1:10 While they were looking intensely to heaven as he went, suddenly, two men stood by them in white clothing.
ACT 1:11 They said, "You men of Galilee, why do you stand here looking into heaven? This Jesus, who has been taken up from you into heaven, will return in the same manner as you saw him going into heaven."
ACT 1:12 Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mountain that is called Olives, which is near to Jerusalem, a Sabbath day's journey.
ACT 1:13 When they arrived, they went up into the upper chamber, where they were staying. They were Peter, John, James, Andrew, Philip, Thomas, Bartholomew, Matthew, James son of Alphaeus, Simon the Zealot, and Judas son of James.
ACT 1:14 They all were devoted with one purpose to prayer, together with the women, and Mary the mother of Jesus, and his brothers.
ACT 1:15 In those days Peter stood up in the midst of the brothers, about 120 names, and said,
ACT 1:16 "Brothers, it was necessary that the scripture should be fulfilled, that the Holy Spirit spoke before by the mouth of David concerning Judas, who guided the ones who arrested Jesus.
ACT 1:17 For he was one of us and received a share of this ministry."
ACT 1:18 (Now this man bought a field with the earnings he received for his wickedness, and there he fell headfirst, and his body burst open, and all his intestines poured out.
ACT 1:19 All those living in Jerusalem heard about this, so they called that field in their language "Akeldama," that is, "Field of Blood.")
ACT 1:20 "For it is written in the Book of Psalms, 'Let his field be made desolate, and do not let even one person live there'; 'Let someone else take his position of leadership.'
ACT 1:21 It is necessary, therefore, that one of the men who accompanied us all the time the Lord Jesus went in and out among us,
ACT 1:22 beginning from the baptism of John to the day that he was taken up from us, become a witness with us of his resurrection."
ACT 1:23 They put forward two men, Joseph called Barsabbas, who was also called Justus, and Matthias.
ACT 1:24 They prayed and said, "You, Lord, know the hearts of all people, so reveal which of these two is the one whom you have chosen
ACT 1:25 to take the place in this ministry and apostleship from which Judas turned away to go to his own place."
ACT 1:26 They cast lots for them, and the lot fell to Matthias, and he was numbered with the eleven apostles.
ACT 2:1 When the day of Pentecost came, they were all together in the same place.
ACT 2:2 Suddenly a sound like the rush of a violent wind came from heaven, and it filled the whole house where they were sitting.
ACT 2:3 There appeared to them tongues like fire that were distributed, and they sat upon each one of them.
ACT 2:4 They were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues, as the Spirit gave them the ability.
ACT 2:5 Now there were Jews who were living in Jerusalem, godly men, from every nation under heaven.
ACT 2:6 When this sound was heard, the multitude came together and was confused because everyone heard them speaking in his own language.
ACT 2:7 They were amazed and marveled; they said, "Really, are not all these who are speaking Galileans?
ACT 2:8 Why is it that we are hearing them, each in our own language in which we were born?
ACT 2:9 Parthians and Medes and Elamites, and those who live in Mesopotamia, in Judea and Cappadocia, in Pontus and Asia,
ACT 2:10 Phrygia and Pamphylia, in Egypt and the parts of Libya toward Cyrene, and visitors from Rome,
ACT 2:11 Jews and proselytes, Cretans and Arabians—we hear them telling in our languages about the mighty works of God."
ACT 2:12 They were all amazed and perplexed; they said to one another, "What does this mean?"
ACT 2:13 But others mocked and said, "They are full of new wine."
ACT 2:14 But Peter stood with the eleven, raised his voice, and declared to them, "Men of Judea and all of you who live at Jerusalem, let this be known to you; pay attention to my words.
ACT 2:15 For these people are not drunk as you assume, for it is only the third hour of the day.
ACT 2:16 But this is what was spoken through the prophet Joel:
ACT 2:17 'It will be in the last days,' God says, 'I will pour out my Spirit on all flesh. Your sons and your daughters will prophesy, your young men will see visions, and your old men will dream dreams.
ACT 2:18 Surely on my servants and my female servants in those days I will pour out my Spirit, and they will prophesy.
ACT 2:19 I will show wonders in the sky above and signs on the earth below, blood, fire, and vapor of smoke.
ACT 2:20 The sun will be turned to darkness and the moon to blood before the great and remarkable day of the Lord comes.
ACT 2:21 It will be that everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.'
ACT 2:22 Men of Israel, hear these words: Jesus of Nazareth was a man accredited to you by God with the mighty deeds and wonders and signs which God did through him in your midst, as you yourselves know.
ACT 2:23 This man was handed over by God's predetermined plan and foreknowledge; and you, by the hand of lawless men, put him to death by nailing him to a cross.
ACT 2:24 But God raised him up, freeing him from the agonies of death, because it was impossible for him to be held by it.
ACT 2:25 For David says about him, 'I saw the Lord always before my face, for he is beside my right hand so that I should not be moved.
ACT 2:26 Therefore my heart was glad and my tongue rejoiced. Also, my flesh will live in hope.
ACT 2:27 For you will not abandon my soul to Hades, neither will you allow your Holy One to see decay.
ACT 2:28 You have made known to me the ways of life; you will make me full of gladness with your face.'
ACT 2:29 Brothers, it is proper for me to speak to you confidently about the patriarch David, that he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day.
ACT 2:30 Therefore, he was a prophet and knew that God had sworn with an oath to him that he would set one of the fruit of his loins on his throne.
ACT 2:31 He saw what was to happen in the future and spoke about the resurrection of the Christ, that he was neither abandoned to Hades, nor did his flesh see decay.
ACT 2:32 This Jesus—God raised him up, of which we all are witnesses.
ACT 2:33 Therefore, having been exalted to the right hand of God and having received the promised Holy Spirit from the Father, he has poured out what you see and hear.
ACT 2:34 For David did not ascend to the heaven, but he says, 'The Lord said to my Lord, "Sit at my right hand
ACT 2:35 until I make your enemies the footstool for your feet."'
ACT 2:36 Therefore, let all the house of Israel certainly know that God has made him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus whom you crucified."
ACT 2:37 Now when they heard this, they were pierced in their hearts, and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, "Brothers, what must we do?"
ACT 2:38 Then Peter said to them, "Repent and be baptized, each of you, in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit.
ACT 2:39 For the promise is to you and to your children and to all who are far off, as many people as the Lord our God will call."
ACT 2:40 With many other words he testified and exhorted them, saying, "Be saved from this perverse generation."
ACT 2:41 Then they received his word and were baptized, and there were added in that day about three thousand souls.
ACT 2:42 They devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and fellowship, in the breaking of bread and in prayers.
ACT 2:43 Fear came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were done through the apostles.
ACT 2:44 All who believed were together and had all things in common,
ACT 2:45 and they sold their property and possessions and distributed them to all, according to the needs anyone had.
ACT 2:46 So day after day they devoted themselves with one purpose in the temple. They also broke bread in homes, and they shared food together with glad and generous hearts,
ACT 2:47 praising God and having favor with all the people, and every day the Lord added to their number those who were being saved.
ACT 3:1 Now Peter and John were going up into the temple at the hour of prayer, the ninth hour.
ACT 3:2 Now a man who was lame from his mother's womb was being carried to the temple gate called Beautiful. They would place him there every day so he could ask those who were going into the temple for alms.
ACT 3:3 When he saw Peter and John about to enter the temple, he asked them for alms.
ACT 3:4 Peter, fastening his eyes upon him, with John, said, "Look at us."
ACT 3:5 The lame man looked at them, expecting to receive something from them.
ACT 3:6 But Peter said, "Silver and gold I do not have, but what I do have, I will give to you. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, walk."
ACT 3:7 Taking him by the right hand, Peter raised him up, and immediately the man's feet and ankles were made strong.
ACT 3:8 Leaping up, the lame man stood and began to walk; and he entered with Peter and John into the temple, walking, leaping, and praising God.
ACT 3:9 All the people saw him walking and praising God.
ACT 3:10 They noticed that it was the man who had been asking people for alms at the Beautiful Gate of the temple; and they were filled with wonder and amazement because of what had happened to him.
ACT 3:11 As he was holding on to Peter and John, all the people ran together to them in the porch that is called Solomon's, greatly marveling.
ACT 3:12 When Peter saw this, he answered the people, "You Israelite men, why do you marvel? Why do you fix your eyes on us, as if we made him walk by our own power or godliness?
ACT 3:13 The God of Abraham, and of Isaac, and of Jacob, the God of our fathers, has glorified his servant Jesus. He is the one whom you handed over and rejected before the face of Pilate, when he had decided to release him.
ACT 3:14 You rejected the Holy and Righteous One, and you asked instead for a murderer to be given to you.
ACT 3:15 You killed the Founder of life, whom God raised from the dead—and we are witnesses of this.
ACT 3:16 On the basis of faith in his name, his name made this man, whom you see and know, strong. The faith that is through Jesus has given him this perfect health in the presence of you all.
ACT 3:17 Now, brothers, I know that you acted in ignorance, as did also your rulers.
ACT 3:18 But the things which God foretold by the mouth of all the prophets, that his Christ should suffer, he has now fulfilled.
ACT 3:19 Repent, therefore, and turn, so that your sins may be blotted out,
ACT 3:20 so that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord; and that he may send the Christ who has been appointed for you, Jesus.
ACT 3:21 He is the One heaven must receive until the time of the restoration of all things, about which God spoke from ancient times by the mouth of his holy prophets.
ACT 3:22 Moses indeed said, 'The Lord God will raise up a prophet like me from among your brothers. You must listen to everything he tells you.
ACT 3:23 It will happen that every person who does not listen to that prophet will be completely destroyed from among the people.'
ACT 3:24 Yes, and all the prophets from Samuel and those who came after him, they spoke out and announced these days.
ACT 3:25 You are the sons of the prophets and of the covenant that God made with your ancestors, as he said to Abraham, 'In your seed all the families of the earth will be blessed.'
ACT 3:26 After God raised up his servant, he sent him to you first, in order to bless you by turning every one of you from your wickedness."
ACT 4:1 As Peter and John were speaking to the people, the priests and the captain of the temple and the Sadducees came upon them.
ACT 4:2 They were deeply troubled because Peter and John were teaching the people and proclaiming in Jesus the resurrection from the dead.
ACT 4:3 They laid hands on them and put them in custody until the next morning, since it was now evening.
ACT 4:4 But many of the people who had heard the message believed; and the number of the men who believed was about five thousand.
ACT 4:5 It came about on the next day that their rulers, elders, and scribes gathered together in Jerusalem.
ACT 4:6 Annas the high priest was there, and Caiaphas, and John, and Alexander, and all who were relatives of the high priest.
ACT 4:7 When they had set Peter and John in their midst, they asked them, "By what power, or in what name, have you done this?"
ACT 4:8 Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, "You rulers of the people, and elders,
ACT 4:9 if we are on trial today concerning a good deed done to a sick man, and by what means this man was healed,
ACT 4:10 let it be known to you all and to all the people of Israel that this man stands before you healthy in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, but whom God raised from the dead.
ACT 4:11 Jesus Christ is the stone which you builders rejected but which has been made the cornerstone.
ACT 4:12 There is no salvation in any other person, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved."
ACT 4:13 Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John and realized that they were ordinary, uneducated men, they were surprised, becoming aware that Peter and John had been with Jesus.
ACT 4:14 Because they saw the man who was healed standing with them, they had nothing to say against this.
ACT 4:15 But after they had commanded the apostles to leave the council meeting, they talked among themselves.
ACT 4:16 They said, "What should we do with these men? For a remarkable sign has been done through them, and this is evident to everyone who lives in Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it.
ACT 4:17 But in order that it spreads no further among the people, let us warn them not to speak anymore to anyone in this name."
ACT 4:18 Then they called them in and commanded them not to speak or teach at all in the name of Jesus.
ACT 4:19 But Peter and John answered and said to them, "Whether it is proper in the sight of God to obey you rather than him, you judge.
ACT 4:20 We are not able to stop speaking about the things we have seen and heard."
ACT 4:21 After further warning Peter and John, they let them go. They were unable to find any excuse to punish them, because all of the people were glorifying God for what had been done.
ACT 4:22 The man who had experienced this sign of healing was more than forty years old.
ACT 4:23 After they were set free, Peter and John came to their own people and reported all that the chief priests and the elders had said to them.
ACT 4:24 When they heard it, they raised their voices with one purpose to God and said, "Lord, you made the heavens and the earth and the sea, and all that is in them.
ACT 4:25 You spoke by the Holy Spirit through the mouth of your servant, our father David, 'Why did the Gentile nations rage, and the peoples imagine useless things?'
ACT 4:26 You said, 'The kings of the earth set themselves together, and the rulers gathered together against the Lord, and against his Christ.'
ACT 4:27 Indeed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, together with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, gathered together in this city against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed.
ACT 4:28 They gathered together to do all that your hand and your plan had decided in advance would happen.
ACT 4:29 Now, Lord, look upon their warnings and grant to your servants to speak your word with all boldness.
ACT 4:30 Stretch out your hand to heal and to give signs and wonders through the name of your holy servant Jesus."
ACT 4:31 After they had prayed, the place where they were gathered together was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and they spoke the word of God with boldness.
ACT 4:32 The great number of those who believed were of one heart and soul. No one said that anything he possessed was his own, but they had everything in common.
ACT 4:33 With great power the apostles were proclaiming their testimony about the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was upon them all.
ACT 4:34 There was no person among them who lacked anything, for all who owned title to lands or houses sold them and brought the money from the things that were sold
ACT 4:35 and laid it at the apostles' feet, and it was distributed to each one according to their need.
ACT 4:36 Joseph, whom the apostles called Barnabas (which is translated Son of Encouragement), a Levite, a man from Cyprus,
ACT 4:37 sold a field that belonged to him and brought the money and laid it at the apostles' feet.
ACT 5:1 Now a certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira his wife, sold a piece of property,
ACT 5:2 and he kept back part of the sale money (his wife also knew it), and brought the other part of it and laid it at the apostles' feet.
ACT 5:3 But Peter said, "Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and to keep back part of the price of the land?
ACT 5:4 While it remained unsold, did it not remain your own, and after it was sold, was it not under your authority? Why did you put it in your heart to do this? You have not lied to men, but to God."
ACT 5:5 Hearing these words, Ananias fell down and breathed his last, and great fear came upon all who heard it.
ACT 5:6 The young men arose and wrapped him up, and they carried him out and buried him.
ACT 5:7 After about three hours, his wife came in, not knowing what had happened.
ACT 5:8 Peter said to her, "Tell me whether you sold the land for so much." She said, "Yes, for so much."
ACT 5:9 Then Peter said to her, "How is it that you have agreed together to test the Spirit of the Lord? Look, the feet of the men who buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry you out."
ACT 5:10 She immediately fell down at his feet and breathed her last. When the young men came in, they found her dead, and carried her out and buried her beside her husband.
ACT 5:11 Great fear came upon the whole church and upon all who heard these things.
ACT 5:12 Many signs and wonders were taking place among the people through the hands of the apostles. They were all together in Solomon's Porch.
ACT 5:13 But none of the rest had the courage to join them; however, they were held in high esteem by the people.
ACT 5:14 Still more believers were being added to the Lord, multitudes of men and women,
ACT 5:15 so that they even carried the sick into the streets and laid them on beds and couches, so that as Peter came by, his shadow might fall on some of them.
ACT 5:16 There also came together a great number of people from the towns around Jerusalem, bringing the sick and those afflicted with unclean spirits, and they were all healed.
ACT 5:17 But the high priest rose up, and all those who were with him (which is the sect of the Sadducees); and they were filled with jealousy
ACT 5:18 and laid hands on the apostles, and held them in custody in the common prison.
ACT 5:19 Yet during the night an angel of the Lord opened the doors of the prison and led them out, and said,
ACT 5:20 "Go, stand in the temple and speak to the people all the words of this life."
ACT 5:21 When they heard this, they entered into the temple about daybreak and taught. But the high priest came, and those who were with him, and called the council together, all the elders of the people of Israel, and sent to the prison to have the apostles brought.
ACT 5:22 But the officers that went did not find them in the prison, and they returned and reported,
ACT 5:23 "We found the prison securely shut and the guards standing at the door, but when we had opened it, we found no one inside."
ACT 5:24 Now when the captain of the temple and the chief priests heard these words, they were much perplexed concerning them as to what would come of it.
ACT 5:25 Then someone came and told them, "The men whom you put in the prison are standing in the temple and teaching the people."
ACT 5:26 So the captain went with the officers and brought them back, but without violence, for they feared the people, that they might be stoned.
ACT 5:27 When they had brought them, they set them before the council. The high priest interrogated them,
ACT 5:28 saying, "We ordered you with a command not to teach in this name, and yet you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching and desire to bring this man's blood upon us."
ACT 5:29 But Peter and the apostles answered, "We must obey God rather than men.
ACT 5:30 The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom you killed by hanging him on a tree.
ACT 5:31 God exalted him to his right hand to be a Prince and a Savior, to give repentance to Israel, and forgiveness of sins.
ACT 5:32 We are witnesses of these things, and so is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him."
ACT 5:33 When the council members heard this, they were furious and they wanted to kill the apostles.
ACT 5:34 But a Pharisee named Gamaliel, a teacher of the law who was honored by all the people, stood up in the council and gave a command to take the men outside for a little while.
ACT 5:35 Then he said to them, "Men of Israel, pay close attention to what you propose to do with these people.
ACT 5:36 For before these days, Theudas rose up claiming to be somebody, and a number of men, about four hundred, joined him. He was killed, and all who had been obeying him were scattered and came to nothing.
ACT 5:37 After this man, Judas of Galilee rose up in the days of the census and drew away some people after him. He also perished, and all who had been obeying him were scattered.
ACT 5:38 Now I say to you, keep away from these men and let them alone, for if this plan or work is of men, it will be overthrown.
ACT 5:39 But if it is of God, you will not be able to overthrow them; you may even find that you are fighting against God." So they were persuaded.
ACT 5:40 Then they called the apostles in and beat them and commanded them not to speak in the name of Jesus, and let them go.
ACT 5:41 They went away from before the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer dishonor for the Name.
ACT 5:42 Thereafter every day, in the temple and from house to house, they were continuously teaching and proclaiming the good news that the Christ is Jesus.
ACT 6:1 Now in these days, when the number of the disciples was multiplying, a complaint by the Grecian Jews began against the Hebrews, because their widows were being overlooked in the daily distribution of help.
ACT 6:2 The twelve called the multitude of the disciples to them and said, "It is not right for us to give up the word of God in order to serve tables.
ACT 6:3 You should therefore choose, brothers, seven men from among yourselves, men of good reputation, full of the Spirit and of wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business.
ACT 6:4 As for us, we will always continue in prayer and in the ministry of the word."
ACT 6:5 Their speech pleased the whole multitude. So they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit, and Philip, Prochorus, Nicanor, Timon, Parmenas, and Nicolaus, a proselyte from Antioch.
ACT 6:6 The believers brought these men before the apostles, who prayed and then placed their hands upon them.
ACT 6:7 So the word of God continued to spread, and the number of disciples in Jerusalem increased greatly, and a large number of the priests became obedient to the faith.
ACT 6:8 Now Stephen, full of grace and power, was doing great wonders and signs among the people.
ACT 6:9 But there arose some people who belonged to the synagogue called the synagogue of the Freedmen, of the Cyrenians and Alexandrians, and some from Cilicia and Asia. These people were debating with Stephen.
ACT 6:10 But they were not able to stand against the wisdom and the Spirit with which Stephen spoke.
ACT 6:11 Then they bribed some men to say, "We have heard Stephen speak blasphemous words against Moses and against God."
ACT 6:12 They stirred up the people, the elders, and the scribes, and they approached Stephen and seized him and brought him before the council.
ACT 6:13 They brought false witnesses, who said, "This man does not stop speaking words against this holy place and the law.
ACT 6:14 For we have heard him say that this Jesus of Nazareth will destroy this place and change the customs that Moses handed down to us."
ACT 6:15 Everyone who sat in the council fixed their eyes on him and saw his face was like the face of an angel.
ACT 7:1 The high priest said, "Are these things true?"
ACT 7:2 Stephen said,
ACT 7:3 he said to him, 'Leave your land and your relatives, and go into the land that I will show you.'
ACT 7:4 "Then he left the land of the Chaldeans and lived in Haran; from there, after his father died, God brought him into this land, where you live now.
ACT 7:5 He gave none of it as an inheritance to him, no, not even enough to set a foot on. But he promised—even though Abraham had no child yet—that he would give the land as a possession to him and to his descendants after him.
ACT 7:6 God was speaking to him like this, that his descendants would live for a while in a foreign land, and that the inhabitants there would bring them into slavery and mistreat them for four hundred years.
ACT 7:7 'But I will judge the nation that they serve,' said God, 'and after that they will come out and worship me in this place.'
ACT 7:8 Then God gave Abraham the covenant of circumcision, so Abraham became the father of Isaac and circumcised him on the eighth day; Isaac became the father of Jacob, and Jacob the father of the twelve patriarchs.
ACT 7:9 "Because the patriarchs were jealous of Joseph, they sold him into Egypt; but God was with him
ACT 7:10 and rescued him from all his tribulation. He gave Joseph favor and wisdom in the presence of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, who appointed him governor over Egypt and over all his household.
ACT 7:11 "Now a famine and great tribulation came over all Egypt and Canaan, and our fathers could find no food.
ACT 7:12 But when Jacob heard that there was grain in Egypt, he sent out our fathers on their first trip.
ACT 7:13 On their second trip Joseph made himself known to his brothers, and Joseph's family became known to Pharaoh.
ACT 7:14 Joseph sent his brothers back to invite Jacob his father to come to Egypt, along with all his relatives, seventy-five persons in all.
ACT 7:15 So Jacob went down into Egypt, and he died, he and our fathers.
ACT 7:16 They were carried over to Shechem and laid in the tomb that Abraham had bought for a price in silver from the sons of Hamor in Shechem.
ACT 7:17 "As the time of the promise approached, the promise that God had made to Abraham, the people grew and multiplied in Egypt,
ACT 7:18 until there arose another king over Egypt, a king who did not know about Joseph.
ACT 7:19 He deceived our people and mistreated our fathers, forcing them to expose their newborn infants so they would not be kept alive.
ACT 7:20 "At that time Moses was born; he was very beautiful before God and was nourished for three months in his father's house.
ACT 7:21 When he was placed outside, Pharaoh's daughter adopted him and raised him as her own son.
ACT 7:22 Moses was educated in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and he was mighty in his words and works.
ACT 7:23 "But when he was about forty years old, it came into his heart to visit his brothers, the descendants of Israel.
ACT 7:24 Seeing an Israelite being mistreated, Moses defended him and avenged him who was oppressed by striking the Egyptian:
ACT 7:25 he thought that his brothers would understand that God, by his hand, was giving them salvation, but they did not understand.
ACT 7:26 On the next day he appeared to them when they were fighting, and he tried to make peace between them, saying, 'Men, you are brothers; why are you wronging one another?'
ACT 7:27 "But the one who had wronged his neighbor pushed him away, and said, 'Who appointed you a ruler and a judge over us?
ACT 7:28 Would you like to kill me, as you killed the Egyptian yesterday?'
ACT 7:29 Moses ran away after hearing this statement; he became a foreigner in the land of Midian, where he became the father of two sons.
ACT 7:30 "When forty years were past, an angel appeared to him in the wilderness of Mount Sinai, in a flame of fire in a bush.
ACT 7:31 When Moses saw the fire, he marveled at the sight; and as he approached to look at it, the voice of the Lord came, saying,
ACT 7:32 'I am the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, and of Isaac, and of Jacob.' Moses trembled and did not dare to look.
ACT 7:33 "The Lord said to him, 'Take off the sandals from your feet, for the place where you are standing is holy ground.
ACT 7:34 I have certainly seen the oppression of my people who are in Egypt; I have heard their groaning, and I have come down to rescue them; now come, I will send you to Egypt.'
ACT 7:35 "This Moses whom they rejected, when they said, 'Who appointed you a ruler and a judge?'—he was the one whom God sent as both a ruler and deliverer. God sent him by the hand of the angel who appeared to Moses in the bush.
ACT 7:36 Moses led them out of Egypt, after doing miracles and signs in Egypt and at the Sea of Reeds, and in the wilderness during forty years.
ACT 7:37 "It is the same Moses who said to the people of Israel, 'God will raise up a prophet for you from among your brothers, a prophet like me.'
ACT 7:38 This is the man who was in the assembly in the wilderness with the angel who had spoken to him on Mount Sinai, who was with our fathers, and who received living words to give to us.
ACT 7:39 "But our fathers refused to obey him; they pushed him away from themselves, and in their hearts they turned back to Egypt.
ACT 7:40 At that time they said to Aaron, 'Make us gods who will lead us. As for this Moses, who led us out of the land of Egypt, we do not know what has happened to him.'
ACT 7:41 So they made a calf in those days and brought a sacrifice to the idol, and rejoiced because of the work of their hands.
ACT 7:42 But God turned and gave them up to worship the stars in the sky, as it is written in the book of the prophets, 'Did you bring me offerings and sacrifices during the forty years in the wilderness, house of Israel?
ACT 7:43 You accepted the tabernacle of Molech and the star of the god Rephan, and the images that you made to worship them: and I will carry you away beyond Babylon.'
ACT 7:44 "Our fathers had the tabernacle of the testimony in the wilderness, just as God commanded when he spoke to Moses, that he should make it like the pattern that he had seen.
ACT 7:45 Later, our fathers, under Joshua, received the tabernacle and brought it with them when they took possession of the land. God took the land from the nations and drove them out before the face of our fathers. The tabernacle remained in the land until the time of David,
ACT 7:46 who found favor in the sight of God, and he asked if he might find a dwelling place for the house of Jacob\f + \ft The phrase: \fqa the house of Jacob, \fqa* is found in many ancient copies. Other ancient texts have the phrase: \fqa the God of Jacob\fqa*. \f*
ACT 7:47 But it was Solomon who built the house for God.
ACT 7:48 "However, the Most High does not live in houses made with hands, as the prophet says,
ACT 7:49 'Heaven is my throne, and the earth is the footstool for my feet. What kind of house can you build for me? says the Lord, or what is the place for my rest?
ACT 7:50 Did my hand not make all these things?'
ACT 7:51 "You stiff-necked people, uncircumcised in heart and ears, you always resist the Holy Spirit; you act just as your fathers acted.
ACT 7:52 Which of the prophets did your fathers not persecute? They killed the prophets who appeared in advance of the coming of the Righteous One; and you have now become the betrayers and murderers of him also,
ACT 7:53 you people who received the law that angels had ordained, but you did not keep it."
ACT 7:54 Now when the council members heard these things, they were furious in their hearts and they ground their teeth at Stephen.
ACT 7:55 But he, being full of the Holy Spirit, looked up intently into heaven and saw the glory of God; and he saw Jesus standing at the right hand of God.
ACT 7:56 Stephen said, "Look, I see the heavens opened, and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God."
ACT 7:57 At this the council members covered their ears, and shouting out with a loud voice, they rushed at him with one purpose.
ACT 7:58 They forced him out of the city and began to stone him. The witnesses laid down their outer clothing at the feet of a young man named Saul.
ACT 7:59 As they were stoning Stephen, he was calling out to the Lord and saying, "Lord Jesus, receive my spirit."
ACT 7:60 He knelt down and cried out with a loud voice, "Lord, do not hold this sin against them." When he had said this, he fell asleep.
ACT 8:1 Saul was in agreement with his death.
ACT 8:2 Devout men buried Stephen and made great lamentation over him.
ACT 8:3 But Saul tried to destroy the church. He would enter house after house, drag off both men and women, and put them in prison.
ACT 8:4 Yet the believers who had been scattered went about preaching the word.
ACT 8:5 Philip went down to the city of Samaria and proclaimed to them the Christ.
ACT 8:6 Crowds of people were giving close attention to what was being said by Philip; with one mind they heard him, and they saw the signs he did.
ACT 8:7 Unclean spirits came out of many who were possessed, crying out with a loud voice, and many who were paralyzed and lame were healed.
ACT 8:8 So there was much joy in that city.
ACT 8:9 But there was a certain man in the city named Simon, who had earlier been practicing sorcery; he used to astonish the people of Samaria while claiming that he was an important person.
ACT 8:10 All the Samaritans, from the least to the greatest, paid attention to him; they said, "This man is that power of God which is called Great."
ACT 8:11 They listened to him because he had astonished them for a long time with his sorceries.
ACT 8:12 But when they believed Philip as he proclaimed the gospel about the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women.
ACT 8:13 Even Simon himself believed, and after he was baptized he stayed with Philip constantly. When he saw signs and mighty works taking place, he was amazed.
ACT 8:14 Now when the apostles in Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent to them Peter and John.
ACT 8:15 When they had come down, they prayed for them, that they might receive the Holy Spirit.
ACT 8:16 For until that time, the Holy Spirit had not come upon any of them; they had only been baptized into the name of the Lord Jesus.
ACT 8:17 Then Peter and John placed their hands on them, and they received the Holy Spirit.
ACT 8:18 Now when Simon saw that the Holy Spirit was given through the laying on of the apostles' hands, he offered them money.
ACT 8:19 He said, "Give me this authority, too, that whoever I place my hands on might receive the Holy Spirit."
ACT 8:20 But Peter said to him, "May your silver perish along with you, because you thought to obtain the gift of God with money.
ACT 8:21 You have no part or allotted portion in this matter, because your heart is not right with God.
ACT 8:22 Therefore repent of this wickedness of yours, and pray to the Lord, so that he might perhaps forgive you for the intention of your heart.
ACT 8:23 For I see that you are in the poison of bitterness and in the bonds of unrighteousness."
ACT 8:24 Simon answered and said, "Pray to the Lord for me, so that nothing you have said may happen to me."
ACT 8:25 When they had testified and spoken the word of the Lord, Peter and John returned to Jerusalem, proclaiming the gospel to many villages of the Samaritans.
ACT 8:26 Now an angel of the Lord spoke to Philip and said, "Arise and go toward the south to the road that goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza." (This road is in a desert.)
ACT 8:27 He arose and went. Behold, there was a man from Ethiopia, a eunuch of great authority under Candace, queen of the Ethiopians. He was in charge of all her treasure. He had come to Jerusalem to worship.
ACT 8:28 He was returning and sitting in his chariot, and was reading the prophet Isaiah.
ACT 8:29 The Spirit said to Philip, "Go over and stay close to this chariot."
ACT 8:30 So Philip ran to him, and heard him reading Isaiah the prophet, and said, "Do you understand what you are reading?"
ACT 8:31 Then he said, "How can I, unless someone guides me?" He invited Philip to come up into the chariot and sit with him.
ACT 8:32 Now the passage of the scripture which the Ethiopian was reading was this, "He was led like a sheep to the slaughter, and like a lamb before his shearer is silent, so he did not open his mouth.
ACT 8:33 In his humiliation justice was taken away from him. Who can give a full account of his descendants? For his life was taken from the earth."
ACT 8:34 So the eunuch asked Philip, and said, "I beg you, tell me who is the prophet speaking about, himself, or someone else?"
ACT 8:35 Philip began to speak, and beginning with this scripture he proclaimed the gospel about Jesus to him.
ACT 8:36 As they went on the road, they came to some water and the eunuch said, "Look, there is water here. What prevents me from being baptized?"
ACT 8:37 \f + \ft The best ancient copies do not have Acts 8:37, \fqa Philip said, "If you believe with all your heart, you may be baptized." The Ethiopian answered, "I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God"\fqa*. \f*
ACT 8:38 So the Ethiopian commanded the chariot to stop. They went down into the water, both Philip and the eunuch, and Philip baptized him.
ACT 8:39 When they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord took Philip away, and the eunuch saw him no more, but went on his way rejoicing.
ACT 8:40 But Philip appeared at Azotus and he went through that region, proclaiming the gospel to all the cities until he came to Caesarea.
ACT 9:1 But Saul, still speaking threats even of murder against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest
ACT 9:2 and asked him for letters for the synagogues in Damascus, so that if he found any who belonged to the Way, whether men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem.
ACT 9:3 As he was traveling, it happened that as he came near to Damascus, suddenly there shone all around him a light out of heaven;
ACT 9:4 and he fell upon the ground and heard a voice saying to him, "Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?"
ACT 9:5 Saul replied, "Who are you, Lord?" The Lord said, "I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting;
ACT 9:6 but rise, enter into the city, and it will be told you what you must do."
ACT 9:7 The men who traveled with Saul stood speechless, hearing the voice, but seeing no one.
ACT 9:8 Saul arose from the ground, and when he opened his eyes, he could see nothing; so they led him by the hand and brought him into Damascus.
ACT 9:9 For three days he was without sight, and he neither ate nor drank.
ACT 9:10 Now there was a disciple at Damascus named Ananias. The Lord said to him in a vision, "Ananias!" He said, "See, I am here, Lord."
ACT 9:11 The Lord said to him, "Arise, and go to the street which is called Straight, and at the house of Judas ask for a man from Tarsus named Saul, for he is praying.
ACT 9:12 He has seen in a vision a man named Ananias coming in and laying his hands on him, so that he might see again."
ACT 9:13 But Ananias answered, "Lord, I have heard from many about this man, how much harm he has done to your holy people in Jerusalem.
ACT 9:14 He has authority from the chief priests to put in bonds everyone here who calls upon your name."
ACT 9:15 But the Lord said to him, "Go, for he is a chosen instrument of mine, to carry my name before the Gentiles and kings and the children of Israel;
ACT 9:16 for I will show him how much he must suffer for the cause of my name."
ACT 9:17 So Ananias departed, and entered into the house. Laying his hands on him, he said, "Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus, who appeared to you on the road when you were coming, has sent me so that you might receive your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit."
ACT 9:18 Immediately something like scales fell from Saul's eyes, and he received his sight; he arose and was baptized;
ACT 9:19 and he ate and was strengthened.
ACT 9:20 Right away he proclaimed Jesus in the synagogues, saying that he is the Son of God.
ACT 9:21 All who heard him were amazed and said, "Is not this the man who destroyed those in Jerusalem who called on this name? He has come here to take them bound to the chief priests."
ACT 9:22 But Saul became more and more powerful, and he was causing distress among the Jews who lived in Damascus by proving that Jesus is the Christ.
ACT 9:23 After many days, the Jews planned together to kill him.
ACT 9:24 But their plan became known to Saul. They watched the gates day and night in order to kill him.
ACT 9:25 But his disciples took him by night and let him down through the wall, lowering him in a basket.
ACT 9:26 When he had come to Jerusalem, Saul attempted to join the disciples, but they were all afraid of him, not believing that he was a disciple.
ACT 9:27 But Barnabas took him and brought him to the apostles, and he told them how Saul had seen the Lord on the road and that the Lord had spoken to him, and how at Damascus Saul had spoken boldly in the name of Jesus.
ACT 9:28 He was with them, going in and out around Jerusalem. He spoke boldly in the name of the Lord Jesus
ACT 9:29 and debated with the Grecian Jews; but they kept trying to kill him.
ACT 9:30 When the brothers learned of this, they brought him down to Caesarea and sent him away to Tarsus.
ACT 9:31 So then, the church throughout all Judea, Galilee, and Samaria had peace and was built up; and, walking in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy Spirit, the church grew in numbers.
ACT 9:32 Now it came about that, as Peter went throughout the whole region, he came down also to God's holy people who lived in the town of Lydda.
ACT 9:33 There he found a certain man named Aeneas, who had been in his bed for eight years, for he was paralyzed.
ACT 9:34 Peter said to him, "Aeneas, Jesus Christ heals you. Get up and make your bed," and right away he got up.
ACT 9:35 So everyone who lived in Lydda and in Sharon saw the man and they turned to the Lord.
ACT 9:36 Now there was in Joppa a certain disciple named Tabitha (which is translated "Dorcas"). This woman was full of good works and merciful deeds that she did for the poor.
ACT 9:37 It came about in those days that she fell sick and died; when they had washed her, they laid her in an upper room.
ACT 9:38 Since Lydda was near Joppa, and the disciples had heard that Peter was there, they sent two men to him, pleading with him, "Come to us without delay."
ACT 9:39 Peter arose and went with them. When he had arrived, they brought him to the upper room, and all the widows stood by him weeping, showing him the tunics and garments that Dorcas had made while she had been with them.
ACT 9:40 Peter put them all out of the room, knelt down, and prayed; then, turning to the body, he said, "Tabitha, arise." Then she opened her eyes, and seeing Peter she sat up.
ACT 9:41 Peter then gave her his hand and raised her up; and when he called God's holy people and the widows, he presented her alive to them.
ACT 9:42 This matter became known throughout all Joppa, and many people believed on the Lord.
ACT 9:43 It happened that Peter stayed for many days in Joppa with a man named Simon, a tanner.
ACT 10:1 Now there was a certain man in the city of Caesarea, Cornelius by name, a centurion of what was called the Italian Company of Soldiers.
ACT 10:2 He was a devout man, one who feared God with all his household, gave many alms to the people, and prayed to God constantly.
ACT 10:3 About the ninth hour of the day, he clearly saw in a vision an angel of God coming to him. The angel said to him, "Cornelius!"
ACT 10:4 Cornelius stared at the angel and was very afraid and said, "What is it, sir?"
ACT 10:5 Now send men to the city of Joppa to bring a man named Simon who is called Peter.
ACT 10:6 He is staying with a tanner named Simon, whose house is by the seaside."
ACT 10:7 When the angel who spoke to him had left, Cornelius called two of his house servants, and a devout soldier from among those who served him.
ACT 10:8 Cornelius told them all that had happened and sent them to Joppa.
ACT 10:9 Now on the next day at about the sixth hour, as they were on their journey and were approaching the city, Peter went up upon the housetop to pray.
ACT 10:10 He then became hungry and wanted something to eat, but while the people were cooking some food, a trance came on him,
ACT 10:11 and he saw the sky open and a certain container descending, something like a large sheet coming down to the earth, let down by its four corners.
ACT 10:12 In it were all kinds of four-footed animals and things that crawled on the earth, and birds of the sky.
ACT 10:13 Then a voice spoke to him: "Rise, Peter, kill and eat."
ACT 10:14 But Peter said, "Not so, Lord; for I have never eaten anything that was defiled and unclean."
ACT 10:15 But the voice came to him again a second time: "What God has made clean, you must not call defiled."
ACT 10:16 This happened three times; then the container was immediately taken back up into the sky.
ACT 10:17 Now while Peter was very confused about what the vision that he had seen could mean, behold, the men who were sent by Cornelius stood before the gate, after they had asked their way to the house.
ACT 10:18 They called out and asked whether Simon, who was also called Peter, was staying there.
ACT 10:19 While Peter was still thinking about the vision, the Spirit said to him, "Behold, three men are looking for you.\f + \ft Some ancient copies have, \fqa two men are looking for you \fqa* or \fqa some men are looking for you \fqa*. \f*
ACT 10:20 Arise and go down and go with them. Do not hesitate to go with them, because I have sent them."
ACT 10:21 So Peter went down to the men and said, "I am he whom you are seeking. Why have you come?"
ACT 10:22 They said, "A centurion named Cornelius, a righteous man and one who fears God, and is well spoken of by all the nation of the Jews, was instructed by a holy angel to send for you to come to his house, so he could listen to a message from you."
ACT 10:23 So Peter invited them to come in and stay with him.
ACT 10:24 On the following day they came to Caesarea. Cornelius was waiting for them; he had called together his relatives and his close friends.
ACT 10:25 It came about that when Peter entered, Cornelius met him and fell down at his feet to worship him.
ACT 10:26 But Peter helped him up, saying, "Stand up! I too am a man."
ACT 10:27 While Peter was talking with him, he went in and found many people gathered together.
ACT 10:28 He said to them, "You yourselves know that it is not lawful for a Jewish man to associate with or to visit a foreigner. But God has shown me that I should not call any man defiled or unclean.
ACT 10:29 That is why I came without arguing, when I was sent for. So I ask you why you sent for me."
ACT 10:30 Cornelius said, "Four days ago at this very hour, I was praying at the ninth hour in my house; and see, a man stood before me in bright clothing.
ACT 10:31 He said, 'Cornelius, your prayer has been heard by God, and your alms have reminded God about you.
ACT 10:32 So send someone to Joppa, and call to you a man named Simon who is called Peter. He is staying in the house of a tanner named Simon, by the seaside.'\f + \ft Some ancient copies add: \fqa When he comes, he will speak to you\fqa*. \f*
ACT 10:33 So at once I sent for you. You are kind to have come. Now then, we are all here present in the sight of God to hear everything that you have been instructed by the Lord to say."\f + \ft Instead of \fqa instructed by the Lord to say, \fqa* some ancient copies have, \fqa instructed by God to say\fqa*. \f*
ACT 10:34 Then Peter opened his mouth and said, "Truly I understand that God is not partial.
ACT 10:35 Instead, in every nation anyone who fears him and does what is right is acceptable to him.
ACT 10:36 You know the message that he sent to the people of Israel, when he announced the good news about peace through Jesus Christ, who is Lord of all—
ACT 10:37 you yourselves know the events that took place, which occurred throughout all Judea, beginning in Galilee, after the baptism that John announced;
ACT 10:38 the events concerning Jesus of Nazareth, how God anointed him with the Holy Spirit and with power. He went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him.
ACT 10:39 We are witnesses of all the things Jesus did, both in the country of the Jews and in Jerusalem. They killed him by hanging him on a tree,
ACT 10:40 but God raised him up on the third day and caused him to be seen,
ACT 10:41 not by all the people, but to the witnesses who were chosen beforehand by God—by us who ate and drank with him after he rose from the dead.
ACT 10:42 He commanded us to proclaim to the people and to testify that this is the one who has been chosen by God to be the Judge of the living and the dead.
ACT 10:43 About him all the prophets testify, that everyone who believes in him receives forgiveness of sins through his name."
ACT 10:44 While Peter was still saying these things, the Holy Spirit fell on all of those who were listening to his message.
ACT 10:45 The people who belonged to the circumcision group of believers—all of those who came with Peter—were amazed, because the gift of the Holy Spirit was poured out also on the Gentiles.
ACT 10:46 For they heard these Gentiles speaking in tongues and exalting God. Then Peter answered,
ACT 10:47 "Can anyone keep water from these people so they should not be baptized, these people who have received the Holy Spirit as well as we?"
ACT 10:48 Then he commanded them to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Then they asked him to stay with them for several days.
ACT 11:1 Now the apostles and the brothers who were in Judea heard that the Gentiles also had received the word of God.
ACT 11:2 When Peter had come up to Jerusalem, they who belonged to the circumcision group criticized him;
ACT 11:3 they said, "You associated with uncircumcised men and ate with them!"
ACT 11:4 But Peter started to explain the matter to them in detail, saying,
ACT 11:5 "I was praying in the city of Joppa, and in a trance I saw a vision of a container coming down, like a large sheet let down from heaven by its four corners. It descended to me.
ACT 11:6 I gazed at it and I thought about it. I saw the four-legged animals of earth, wild beasts, things that crawled, and birds of the sky.
ACT 11:7 Then I heard a voice say to me, 'Get up, Peter; kill and eat!'
ACT 11:8 I said, 'Not so, Lord; for nothing unholy or unclean has ever entered into my mouth.'
ACT 11:9 But the voice answered again from heaven, 'What God has made clean, you must not call defiled.'
ACT 11:10 This happened three times, and then everything was taken back up into heaven again.
ACT 11:11 "Behold, right away there were three men standing in front of the house where we were; they had been sent from Caesarea to me.
ACT 11:12 The Spirit commanded me to go with them, and that I should make no distinction regarding them. These six brothers went with me, and we went into the man's house.
ACT 11:13 He told us how he had seen the angel standing in his house and saying, 'Send men to Joppa and bring back Simon who is called Peter.
ACT 11:14 He will speak to you a message by which you will be saved—you and all your household.'
ACT 11:15 As I began to speak to them, the Holy Spirit came on them, just as on us in the beginning.
ACT 11:16 I remembered the words of the Lord, how he said, 'John indeed baptized with water; but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit.'
ACT 11:17 Then if God gave to them the same gift as he gave to us when we believed on the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I, that I could oppose God?"
ACT 11:18 When they heard these things, they said nothing in response, but they glorified God and said, "Then God has given repentance for life to the Gentiles also."
ACT 11:19 Now those who had been scattered by the persecution that arose over Stephen spread as far as Phoenicia, Cyprus, and Antioch, speaking the word only to Jews.
ACT 11:20 But some of them, men from Cyprus and Cyrene, came to Antioch and spoke also to Greeks, proclaiming to them the gospel about the Lord Jesus.
ACT 11:21 The hand of the Lord was with them; a great number believed and turned to the Lord.
ACT 11:22 News about them came to the ears of the church in Jerusalem, and they sent out Barnabas as far as Antioch.
ACT 11:23 When he came and saw the grace of God, he was glad and he encouraged them all to remain with the Lord with purpose of heart.
ACT 11:24 For he was a good man and full of the Holy Spirit and of faith, and many people were added to the Lord.
ACT 11:25 Barnabas then went out to Tarsus to search carefully for Saul.
ACT 11:26 When he found him, he brought him to Antioch. It came about that for an entire year they gathered together with the church and taught many people. The disciples were first called Christians in Antioch.
ACT 11:27 Now in these days some prophets came down from Jerusalem to Antioch.
ACT 11:28 One of them, Agabus by name, stood up and indicated by the Spirit that a great famine would occur over all the world. This happened in the days of Claudius.
ACT 11:29 So the disciples, as each one was able, determined to send a contribution for the relief of the brothers in Judea.
ACT 11:30 They did this; they sent money to the elders by the hand of Barnabas and Saul.
ACT 12:1 Now about that time Herod the king laid hands on some who belonged to the church so that he might mistreat them.
ACT 12:2 He killed James the brother of John with the sword.
ACT 12:3 After he saw that this pleased the Jews, he proceeded to arrest Peter also. That was during the days of unleavened bread.
ACT 12:4 After arresting him, he put him in prison, assigning him over to four squads of soldiers to guard him; he was intending to bring him to the people after the Passover.
ACT 12:5 So Peter was kept in the prison, but prayer was made earnestly to God for him by those in the church.
ACT 12:6 On the night before Herod was going to bring him out for trial, Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains, while guards in front of the door were keeping watch over the prison.
ACT 12:7 Behold, an angel of the Lord suddenly appeared by him, and a light shone in the prison cell. He struck Peter on the side and woke him and said, "Get up quickly," and his chains fell off his hands.
ACT 12:8 The angel said to him, "Gird yourself and put on your sandals." Peter did so. The angel said to him, "Put on your outer garment and follow me."
ACT 12:9 So Peter followed the angel and went out. He did not know that what was done by the angel was real. He thought he was seeing a vision.
ACT 12:10 After they had passed by the first guard and the second, they came to the iron gate that led into the city; it opened for them by itself. They went out and went down a street, and the angel left him right away.
ACT 12:11 When Peter came to himself, he said, "Now I truly know that the Lord has sent his angel and delivered me out of the hand of Herod, and from everything the Jewish people were expecting."
ACT 12:12 When he realized this, he went to the house of Mary the mother of John, also called Mark, where many people had gathered and were praying.
ACT 12:13 When he knocked at the door of the gate, a servant girl named Rhoda came to answer.
ACT 12:14 When she recognized Peter's voice, out of joy she failed to open the gate; instead, she came running into the room; she reported that Peter was standing at the gate.
ACT 12:15 So they said to her, "You are insane." But she insisted that it was so. They said, "It is his angel."
ACT 12:16 But Peter continued knocking, and when they had opened the door, they saw him and were amazed.
ACT 12:17 Peter motioned to them with his hand to be silent, and he told them how the Lord had brought him out of prison. He said, "Report these things to James and the brothers." Then he left and went to another place.
ACT 12:18 Now when it became day, there was no small disturbance among the soldiers over what had happened to Peter.
ACT 12:19 After Herod had searched for him and could not find him, he questioned the guards and ordered them to be put to death.
ACT 12:20 Now Herod was very angry with the people of Tyre and Sidon. They went to him with one purpose, and after persuading Blastus, the king's assistant, to help them, they asked for peace because their country received its food from the king's country.
ACT 12:21 On a set day Herod dressed himself in royal clothing and sat on a throne; he made a speech to them.
ACT 12:22 The people shouted, "This is the voice of a god, not of a man!"
ACT 12:23 Immediately an angel of the Lord struck him, because he did not give God the glory; he was eaten by worms and died.
ACT 12:24 But the word of God increased and multiplied.
ACT 12:25 So when Barnabas and Saul had completed their mission, they returned from Jerusalem,\f + \ft Some ancient copies read, \fqa they returned to Jerusalem\fqa*. \f* bringing with them John, also called Mark.
ACT 13:1 Now in the church in Antioch, there were some prophets and teachers. They were Barnabas, Simeon (who is called Niger), Lucius of Cyrene, Manaen (the foster brother of Herod the tetrarch), and Saul.
ACT 13:2 While they were worshiping the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, "Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul, to do the work to which I have called them."
ACT 13:3 After they had fasted, prayed, and laid their hands on these men, they sent them off.
ACT 13:4 So Barnabas and Saul, having been sent out by the Holy Spirit, went down to Seleucia; from there they sailed away to Cyprus.
ACT 13:5 While they were in the city of Salamis, they proclaimed the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. They also had John for an assistant.
ACT 13:6 When they had gone through the whole island to Paphos, they found a certain magician, a Jewish false prophet, whose name was Bar-Jesus.
ACT 13:7 This magician associated with the proconsul, Sergius Paulus, who was an intelligent man. This man summoned Barnabas and Saul, because he sought to hear the word of God.
ACT 13:8 But Elymas "the magician" (that is how his name is translated) opposed them; he tried to turn the proconsul away from the faith.
ACT 13:9 But Saul, who is also called Paul, filled with the Holy Spirit, stared at him intensely
ACT 13:10 and said, "You son of the devil, you are full of all kinds of deceit and wickedness. You are an enemy of every kind of righteousness. You will never stop twisting the straight paths of the Lord, will you?
ACT 13:11 Now look, the hand of the Lord is upon you, and you will become blind. You will not see the sun for a while." Immediately there fell on Elymas a mist and darkness; he started going around seeking people to lead him by the hand.
ACT 13:12 After the proconsul saw what had happened, he believed, because he was astonished at the teaching about the Lord.
ACT 13:13 Now Paul and his friends set sail from Paphos and came to Perga in Pamphylia. But John left them and returned to Jerusalem.
ACT 13:14 Paul and his friends traveled from Perga and came to Antioch of Pisidia. There they went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day and sat down.
ACT 13:15 After the reading of the law and the prophets, the leaders of the synagogue sent them a message, saying, "Brothers, if you have any message of encouragement for the people here, say it."
ACT 13:16 So Paul stood up and motioned with his hand; he said, "Men of Israel and you who fear God, listen.
ACT 13:17 The God of this people Israel chose our fathers and exalted the people when they stayed in the land of Egypt, and with an uplifted arm he led them out of it.
ACT 13:18 For about forty years he put up with them in the wilderness.\f + \ft Some ancient copies read, \fqa For about forty years he cared for them in the wilderness\fqa*. \f*
ACT 13:19 After he had destroyed seven nations in the land of Canaan, he gave our people their land for an inheritance.
ACT 13:20 All these events took place over 450 years. After all these things, God gave them judges until Samuel the prophet.
ACT 13:21 Then the people asked for a king, and God gave them Saul son of Kish, a man from the tribe of Benjamin, to be king for forty years.
ACT 13:22 After God removed him from the kingship, he raised up David to be their king. It was about David that God testified, saying, 'I have found David son of Jesse to be a man after my heart, who does all I want him to do.'
ACT 13:23 From this man's descendants God has brought to Israel a Savior, Jesus, as he promised to do.
ACT 13:24 Before the arrival of Jesus, John proclaimed a baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel.
ACT 13:25 As John was finishing his work, he said, 'Who do you think I am? I am not the one. But listen, one is coming after me, the sandals of whose feet I am not worthy to untie.'
ACT 13:26 Brothers, children of the offspring of Abraham, and those among you who fear God, it is to us that the message about this salvation has been sent.
ACT 13:27 For they who live in Jerusalem and their rulers did not recognize him, and they fulfilled the voices of the prophets that are read every Sabbath by condemning him.
ACT 13:28 Even though they found no reason for the death penalty, they called on Pilate to kill him.
ACT 13:29 When they had completed all the things that were written about him, they took him down from the tree and laid him in a tomb.
ACT 13:30 But God raised him from the dead.
ACT 13:31 He was seen for many days by those who had come up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem. These people are now his witnesses to the people.
ACT 13:32 So we tell you the good news: The promise that came to our fathers
ACT 13:33 God has fulfilled for us, their children, by raising up Jesus. As it is written in the second Psalm: 'You are my Son, today I have become your Father.'
ACT 13:34 As to his raising him from the dead, never to return to decay, he has spoken in this way: 'I will give you the holy and sure blessings promised to David.'
ACT 13:35 This is why he also says in another Psalm, 'You will not allow your Holy One to see decay.'
ACT 13:36 For when David had served the purpose of God in his own generation, he fell asleep; he was laid with his fathers and his body experienced decay.
ACT 13:37 But he whom God raised up experienced no decay.
ACT 13:38 So let it be known to you, brothers, that through this man forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you. The law of Moses could not make you righteous.
ACT 13:39 But by this man God makes righteous everyone who believes.
ACT 13:40 So then be careful that the thing the prophets spoke about does not happen to you:
ACT 13:41 'Look, you despisers, and be astonished and then perish; For I am doing a work in your days, a work that you would never believe, even if someone announces it to you.'"
ACT 13:42 As Paul and Barnabas left, the people begged them that they might speak these same words again the next Sabbath.
ACT 13:43 When the synagogue meeting ended, many of the Jews and devout proselytes followed Paul and Barnabas, who were speaking to them and persuading them to continue in the grace of God.
ACT 13:44 On the next Sabbath, almost the whole city was gathered together to hear the word of the Lord.
ACT 13:45 When the Jews saw the crowds, they were filled with envy and spoke against the things that were said by Paul and insulted him.
ACT 13:46 But Paul and Barnabas spoke out boldly and said, "It was necessary that the word of God should first be spoken to you. Seeing you push it away from yourselves and consider yourselves unworthy of eternal life, see, we will turn to the Gentiles.
ACT 13:47 For so has the Lord commanded us, saying, 'I have appointed you as a light for the Gentiles, that you should bring salvation to the uttermost parts of the earth.'"
ACT 13:48 As the Gentiles heard this, they were glad and glorified the word of the Lord. As many as were appointed to eternal life believed.
ACT 13:49 The word of the Lord was spread out through the whole region.
ACT 13:50 But the Jews incited the devout women of high standing and the leading men of the city. They stirred up persecution against Paul and Barnabas and threw them out of their region.
ACT 13:51 But Paul and Barnabas shook off the dust from their feet against them. Then they went to the city of Iconium.
ACT 13:52 And the disciples were filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit.
ACT 14:1 It came about in Iconium that Paul and Barnabas entered together into the synagogue of the Jews and spoke in such a way that a great multitude both of Jews and of Greeks believed.
ACT 14:2 But the Jews who were disobedient stirred up the minds of the Gentiles and made them bitter against the brothers.
ACT 14:3 So they stayed there for a long time, speaking boldly with the Lord's power, while he gave evidence about the message of his grace. He did this by granting signs and wonders to be done by the hands of Paul and Barnabas.
ACT 14:4 But the people of the city were divided; some sided with the Jews, others with the apostles.
ACT 14:5 Both Gentiles and Jews (together with their leaders) made an attempt to mistreat them and to stone them,
ACT 14:6 but as soon as they learned about this, they fled to the Lycaonian cities of Lystra and Derbe and the surrounding region,
ACT 14:7 where they continued to proclaim the gospel.
ACT 14:8 At Lystra a certain man sat, powerless in his feet, a cripple from his mother's womb, who never had walked.
ACT 14:9 This man heard Paul speaking. Paul fixed his eyes on him and saw that he had faith to be made well.
ACT 14:10 So he said to him in a loud voice, "Stand up on your feet." Then the man jumped up and walked around.
ACT 14:11 When the multitude saw what Paul had done, they raised their voice, saying in the dialect of Lycaonia, "The gods have become like men and come down to us."
ACT 14:12 They called Barnabas "Zeus," and Paul "Hermes," because he was the main speaker.
ACT 14:13 The priest of Zeus, whose temple was just outside the city, brought oxen and wreaths to the gates; he and the multitudes wanted to offer sacrifice.
ACT 14:14 But when the apostles, Barnabas and Paul, heard of it, they tore their clothing and quickly went out into the crowd, crying out,
ACT 14:15 "Men, why are you doing these things? We also are human beings, with the same nature as you. We are telling you good news that you should turn from these useless things to the living God, who made the heavens, the earth, the sea, and everything that is in them.
ACT 14:16 In the past ages, he allowed all the nations to walk in their own ways.
ACT 14:17 But still, he did not leave himself without witness, in that he did good and gave you the rains from heaven and fruitful seasons, filling your hearts with food and gladness."
ACT 14:18 Even with these words, Paul and Barnabas barely kept the multitudes from sacrificing to them.
ACT 14:19 But some Jews from Antioch and Iconium came and persuaded the crowds. They stoned Paul and dragged him out of the city, thinking that he was dead.
ACT 14:20 Yet as the disciples were standing around him, he got up and entered the city. The next day, he went to Derbe with Barnabas.
ACT 14:21 After they had proclaimed the gospel in that city and made many disciples, they returned to Lystra, to Iconium, and to Antioch.
ACT 14:22 They kept strengthening the souls of the disciples and encouraging them to continue in the faith, saying, "We must enter into the kingdom of God through many tribulations."
ACT 14:23 When they had appointed for them elders in every church, and had prayed with fasting, they entrusted them to the Lord, in whom they had believed.
ACT 14:24 Then they passed through Pisidia and came to Pamphylia.
ACT 14:25 When they had spoken the word in Perga, they went down to Attalia.
ACT 14:26 From there they sailed to Antioch, where they had been committed to the grace of God for the work which they had now completed.
ACT 14:27 When they arrived in Antioch and gathered the church together, they reported all the things that God had done with them, and how he had opened a door of faith for the Gentiles.
ACT 14:28 They stayed for a long time with the disciples.
ACT 15:1 Some men came down from Judea to Antioch and taught the brothers, saying, "Unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved."
ACT 15:2 This brought Paul and Barnabas into a sharp dispute and debate with them. So Paul and Barnabas, along with some others from among them, were appointed to go up to Jerusalem to meet with the apostles and elders about this question.
ACT 15:3 They therefore, being sent by the church, passed through both Phoenicia and Samaria and announced the conversion of the Gentiles. They brought great joy to all the brothers.
ACT 15:4 When they came to Jerusalem, they were welcomed by the church and the apostles and the elders, and they reported all the things that God had done with them.
ACT 15:5 But certain men who believed, who belonged to the group of Pharisees, stood up and said, "It is necessary to circumcise them and to command them to keep the law of Moses."
ACT 15:6 So the apostles and the elders gathered together to consider this matter.
ACT 15:7 After much debate, Peter stood up and said to them, "Brothers, you know that a good while ago God made a choice among you, that by my mouth the Gentiles should hear the word of the gospel, and believe.
ACT 15:8 God, who knows the heart, has testified to them by giving them the Holy Spirit, just as he did to us.
ACT 15:9 He made no distinction between us and them, having cleansed their hearts by faith.
ACT 15:10 Now therefore why do you test God, that you should put a yoke upon the neck of the disciples which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear?
ACT 15:11 But we believe that we will be saved through the grace of the Lord Jesus, just as they were."
ACT 15:12 All the multitude kept silent while they listened to Barnabas and Paul report the signs and wonders God had worked among the Gentiles through them.
ACT 15:13 After they stopped speaking, James answered, saying,
ACT 15:14 Simon has told how God first graciously helped the Gentiles in order to take from them a people for his name.
ACT 15:15 The words of the prophets agree with this, as it is written,
ACT 15:16 'After these things I will return, and I will build again the tabernacle of David, which has fallen down; I will set up and restore its ruins again,
ACT 15:17 so that the remnant of men may seek the Lord, including all the Gentiles called by my name.'
ACT 15:18 This is what the Lord says, who has done these things that have been known from ancient times.\f + \ft There are some copies of the ancient Greek text that have a slightly different meaning, \fqa This is what the Lord says, to whom are known all his deeds from ancient times\fqa*. \f*
ACT 15:19 Therefore, I have decided that we should not trouble those of the Gentiles who turn to God.
ACT 15:20 But we will write to them that they must keep away from the pollution of idols, from sexual immorality, and from the meat of strangled animals, and from blood.
ACT 15:21 For Moses has been proclaimed in every city from ancient generations and he is preached in the synagogues every Sabbath."
ACT 15:22 Then it seemed good to the apostles and the elders, with the whole church, to choose Judas called Barsabbas, and Silas, who were leaders of the brothers, and send them to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas.
ACT 15:23 They wrote this with their hands, \pi "From the apostles and elders, your brothers, \pi to the Gentile brothers in Antioch, Syria, and Cilicia: \pi Greetings! \pi
ACT 15:24 Because we have heard that certain men have gone out from us, with no orders from us, and have disturbed you with words that upset your souls,
ACT 15:25 it seemed good to us, who have come to one mind, to choose men and to send them to you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul,
ACT 15:26 men who have risked their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
ACT 15:27 Therefore we have sent Judas and Silas, who will report to you the same things in their own words.
ACT 15:28 For it seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us, to lay upon you no greater burden than these necessary things:
ACT 15:29 that you abstain from things sacrificed to idols, blood, things strangled, and from sexual immorality. If you avoid these things, you will do well. \pi Farewell."
ACT 15:30 So they, when they were dismissed, came down to Antioch; after they gathered the multitude together, they delivered the letter.
ACT 15:31 When they had read it, they rejoiced because of the encouragement.
ACT 15:32 Judas and Silas, also prophets, encouraged the brothers with many words and strengthened them.
ACT 15:33 After they had spent some time there, they were sent away in peace from the brothers to those who had sent them.
ACT 15:34 \f + \ft The best ancient copies do not have verse 34 (See: Acts 15:40), \fqa But it seemed good to Silas to remain there\fqa*. \f*
ACT 15:35 But Paul and Barnabas stayed in Antioch, teaching and preaching (along with many others) the word of the Lord.
ACT 15:36 After some days Paul said to Barnabas, "Let us return now and visit the brothers in every city where we proclaimed the word of the Lord, and see how they are."
ACT 15:37 Barnabas wanted to also take with them John, who was called Mark.
ACT 15:38 But Paul thought it was not good to take Mark, who had left them in Pamphylia and did not go further with them in the work.
ACT 15:39 Then there arose a sharp disagreement, so that they separated from each other, and Barnabas took Mark with him and sailed away to Cyprus.
ACT 15:40 But Paul chose Silas and left, after he was entrusted by the brothers to the grace of the Lord.
ACT 15:41 Then he went through Syria and Cilicia, strengthening the churches.
ACT 16:1 Paul also came to Derbe and to Lystra, and behold, a certain disciple named Timothy was there, the son of a Jewish woman who was a believer, but his father was a Greek.
ACT 16:2 He was well spoken of by the brothers who were at Lystra and Iconium.
ACT 16:3 Paul wanted him to travel with him, so he took him and circumcised him because of the Jews that were in those places, for they all knew that his father was a Greek.
ACT 16:4 As they were going along through the cities, they were passing along the decrees to obey that were decided on by the apostles and elders who were in Jerusalem.
ACT 16:5 So the churches were strengthened in the faith and increased in number daily.
ACT 16:6 Paul and his companions went through the regions of Phrygia and Galatia, since they had been forbidden by the Holy Spirit to proclaim the word in the province of Asia.
ACT 16:7 When they came near Mysia, they attempted to go into Bithynia, but the Spirit of Jesus prevented them.
ACT 16:8 So passing by Mysia, they came down to the city of Troas.
ACT 16:9 A vision appeared to Paul in the night: A man of Macedonia was standing there, begging him and saying, "Come over into Macedonia and help us."
ACT 16:10 When Paul had seen the vision, immediately we sought to go to Macedonia, concluding that God had called us to preach the gospel to them.
ACT 16:11 Setting sail therefore from Troas, we made a straight course to Samothrace, and the next day we came to Neapolis.
ACT 16:12 From there we went to Philippi, which is a city of Macedonia, the most important city in the district and a Roman colony, and we stayed in this city for several days.
ACT 16:13 On the Sabbath day we went outside the gate by the river, where we thought there would be a place of prayer. We sat down and spoke to the women who had come together.
ACT 16:14 A certain woman named Lydia, a seller of purple from the city of Thyatira, who worshiped God, listened to us. The Lord opened her heart to pay attention to what was said by Paul.
ACT 16:15 When she and her house were baptized, she pleaded with us, saying, "If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come and stay in my house." And she persuaded us.
ACT 16:16 It came about that, as we were going to the place of prayer, a certain slave girl who had a spirit of divination encountered us. She brought her masters much gain by fortunetelling.
ACT 16:17 This woman followed after Paul and us and shouted, saying, "These men are servants of the Most High God. They proclaim to you the way of salvation."
ACT 16:18 She did this for many days. But Paul, being greatly annoyed by her, turned and said to the spirit, "I command you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her." And it came out at that same hour.
ACT 16:19 When her masters saw that their hope of profit was now gone, they seized Paul and Silas and dragged them into the marketplace before the authorities.
ACT 16:20 When they had brought them to the magistrates, they said, "These men are causing trouble in our city. They are Jews.
ACT 16:21 They proclaim customs that are not lawful for Romans to accept or practice."
ACT 16:22 Then the crowd rose up together against Paul and Silas; the magistrates tore their garments off them and commanded them to be beaten with rods.
ACT 16:23 When they had laid many blows upon them, they threw them into prison and commanded the jailer to guard them securely.
ACT 16:24 After he got this command, the jailer threw them into the inner prison and fastened their feet in the stocks.
ACT 16:25 Around midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the other prisoners were listening to them.
ACT 16:26 Suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken; and immediately all the doors were opened, and everyone's chains were unfastened.
ACT 16:27 The jailer was awakened from sleep and saw the open prison doors; he drew his sword and was about to kill himself, because he thought that the prisoners had escaped.
ACT 16:28 But Paul shouted with a loud voice, saying, "Do not harm yourself, because we are all here."
ACT 16:29 The jailer called for lights and rushed in and, trembling for fear, fell down before Paul and Silas,
ACT 16:30 and brought them out and said, "Sirs, what must I do to be saved?"
ACT 16:31 They said, "Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved, you and your household."
ACT 16:32 They spoke the word of the Lord to him, together with everyone in his house.
ACT 16:33 Then the jailer took them at the same hour of the night, and washed their wounds, and he and those in his entire house were baptized immediately.
ACT 16:34 Then as he brought Paul and Silas up into his house and he set food before them, he rejoiced greatly with those of his house, that he had believed in God.
ACT 16:35 Now when it was day, the magistrates sent word to the guards, saying, "Let those men go."
ACT 16:36 The jailer reported the words to Paul, saying, "The magistrates have sent word to me to let you go. Now therefore come out, and go in peace."
ACT 16:37 But Paul said to them, "They have publicly beaten us without a trial, even though we are Roman citizens—and they threw us into prison. Do they now want to send us away secretly? No! Let them come themselves and lead us out."
ACT 16:38 The guards reported these words to the magistrates, and when they heard that Paul and Silas were Romans, they were afraid.
ACT 16:39 The magistrates came and apologized to them and brought them out, asking them to go away from the city.
ACT 16:40 So Paul and Silas went out of the prison and came to the house of Lydia. When Paul and Silas saw the brothers, they encouraged them and then departed from the city.
ACT 17:1 Now when they had passed through the cities of Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to the city of Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews.
ACT 17:2 Paul, as his custom was, went to them, and for three Sabbath days reasoned with them from the scriptures.
ACT 17:3 He was opening the scriptures and explaining that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise again from the dead. He said, "This Jesus whom I proclaim to you is the Christ."
ACT 17:4 Some of the Jews were persuaded and joined Paul and Silas, including a large number of devout Greeks, and not a few of the leading women.
ACT 17:5 But the unbelieving Jews, being moved with jealousy, took certain wicked men from the marketplace, gathered a crowd together, and set the city in an uproar. Assaulting the house of Jason, they were seeking to bring Paul and Silas out to the people.
ACT 17:6 But when they did not find them, they dragged Jason and certain other brothers before the officials of the city, crying, "These men who have turned the world upside down have come here also.
ACT 17:7 These men whom Jason has welcomed act against the decrees of Caesar; they say that there is another king—Jesus."
ACT 17:8 They troubled the crowd and the officials of the city who heard these things.
ACT 17:9 But after they took security from Jason and the rest, they let them go.
ACT 17:10 That night the brothers sent Paul and Silas to Berea. When they arrived there, they went into the synagogue of the Jews.
ACT 17:11 Now these people were more noble than those in Thessalonica, for they received the word with all readiness of mind, examining the scriptures daily to see whether these things were so.
ACT 17:12 Therefore many of them believed, including some influential Greek women and many men.
ACT 17:13 But when the Jews of Thessalonica learned that Paul was also proclaiming the word of God at Berea, they went there and stirred up and troubled the crowds.
ACT 17:14 Then immediately, the brothers sent Paul to go to the sea, but Silas and Timothy stayed there.
ACT 17:15 Those who were leading Paul took him as far as the city of Athens. As they left Paul there, they received from him instructions for Silas and Timothy to come to him as quickly as possible.
ACT 17:16 Now while Paul was waiting for them in Athens, his spirit was provoked within him as he saw the city full of idols.
ACT 17:17 So he reasoned every day in the synagogue with the Jews and others who worshiped God, as well as in the marketplace with those who happened to be there.
ACT 17:18 But also some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers encountered him. Some said, "What is this babbler trying to say?" Others said, "He seems to be one who calls people to follow strange gods," because he was proclaiming the gospel about Jesus and the resurrection.
ACT 17:19 They took Paul and brought him to the Areopagus, saying, "May we know this new teaching which you were speaking?
ACT 17:20 For you bring some strange things to our ears. Therefore, we want to know what these things mean."
ACT 17:21 (Now all the Athenians and the strangers living there spent their time in nothing but either telling or listening about something new.)
ACT 17:22 So Paul stood in the middle of the Areopagus and said,
ACT 17:23 For as I passed along and observed the objects of your worship, I found an altar with this inscription, 'TO AN UNKNOWN GOD.' What therefore you worship in ignorance, this I announce to you.
ACT 17:24 The God who made the world and everything in it, since he is Lord of heaven and earth, does not live in temples built with hands.
ACT 17:25 Neither is he served by men's hands, as though he needed anything, since he himself gives people life and breath and everything else.
ACT 17:26 From one man he made every nation of people to live on the surface of the earth, having determined their appointed seasons and the boundaries of their living areas,
ACT 17:27 so that they should search for God and perhaps they may feel their way toward him and find him. Yet he is not far from each one of us.
ACT 17:28 For in him we live and move and have our being, just as one of your own poets has said: 'For we also are his offspring.'
ACT 17:29 "Therefore, since we are God's offspring, we ought not to think that the qualities of deity are like gold, or silver, or stone—images created by the art and imagination of man.
ACT 17:30 Therefore God overlooked the times of ignorance, but now he commands all men everywhere to repent.
ACT 17:31 This is because he has set a day when he will judge the world in righteousness by the man he has appointed. God has given proof of this man to everyone by raising him from the dead."
ACT 17:32 Now when the men of Athens heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked Paul; but others said, "We will listen to you again about this matter."
ACT 17:33 After that, Paul left them.
ACT 17:34 But certain men joined him and believed, including Dionysius the Areopagite, a woman named Damaris, and others with them.
ACT 18:1 After these things Paul left Athens and went to Corinth.
ACT 18:2 There he met a Jew named Aquila, a native of Pontus, who had recently come from Italy with his wife Priscilla, because Claudius had commanded all the Jews to leave Rome. Paul went to them,
ACT 18:3 and because he worked at the same trade, he stayed with them and labored, for they were tentmakers by trade.
ACT 18:4 So Paul reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath, trying to persuade both Jews and Greeks.
ACT 18:5 Now when Silas and Timothy came down from Macedonia, Paul devoted himself to the word, testifying to the Jews that Jesus was the Christ.
ACT 18:6 But when the Jews opposed and insulted him, Paul shook out his garment at them and said to them, "May your blood be upon your own heads; I am clean. From now on I will go to the Gentiles."
ACT 18:7 Then he left from there and went to the house of a man named Titius Justus, a man who worshiped God. His house was next to the synagogue.
ACT 18:8 Crispus, the leader of the synagogue, believed in the Lord, together with all his household; and many of the Corinthians who heard about it believed and were baptized.
ACT 18:9 The Lord said to Paul in the night in a vision, "Do not be afraid, but speak and do not be silent.
ACT 18:10 For I am with you, and no one will try to harm you, for I have many people in this city."
ACT 18:11 Paul lived there for a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them.
ACT 18:12 But when Gallio became governor of Achaia, the Jews rose up with one mind against Paul and brought him before the judgment seat;
ACT 18:13 they said, "This man persuades people to worship God contrary to the law."
ACT 18:14 Yet when Paul was about to speak, Gallio said to the Jews, "You Jews, if indeed it were a matter of wrong or a wicked crime, it would be reasonable to put up with you.
ACT 18:15 But since these are questions about words and names and your own law, settle it yourselves. I do not wish to be a judge of these matters."
ACT 18:16 Gallio made them leave the judgment seat.
ACT 18:17 So they all seized Sosthenes, the ruler of the synagogue, and beat him in front of the judgment seat. But Gallio did not care what they did.
ACT 18:18 Paul, after staying there for many more days, left the brothers and sailed for Syria with Priscilla and Aquila. Before he left the seaport, Cenchreae, he had his hair cut off because of a vow he had taken.
ACT 18:19 When they came to Ephesus, Paul left Priscilla and Aquila there, but he himself went into the synagogue and reasoned with the Jews.
ACT 18:20 When they asked Paul to stay a longer time, he declined.
ACT 18:21 But taking his leave of them, he said, "I will return again to you if it is God's will." He then set sail from Ephesus.
ACT 18:22 When Paul had landed at Caesarea, he went up and greeted the Jerusalem church and then went down to Antioch.
ACT 18:23 After having spent some time there, Paul departed and went through the regions of Galatia and Phrygia, strengthening all the disciples.
ACT 18:24 Now a certain Jew named Apollos, an Alexandrian by birth, came to Ephesus. He was eloquent in speech and mighty in the scriptures.
ACT 18:25 Apollos had been instructed in the teachings of the Lord. Being fervent in spirit, he spoke and taught accurately the things concerning Jesus, but he knew only the baptism of John.
ACT 18:26 Apollos began to speak boldly in the synagogue. But when Priscilla and Aquila heard him, they took him aside and explained to him the way of God more accurately.
ACT 18:27 When he desired to pass over into Achaia, the brothers encouraged him and wrote to the disciples in Achaia to welcome him. When he arrived, he greatly helped those who believed by grace.
ACT 18:28 Apollos powerfully refuted the Jews in public debate, showing by the scriptures that Jesus is the Christ.
ACT 19:1 It came about that while Apollos was at Corinth, Paul passed through the upper country and came to the city of Ephesus, and found certain disciples there.
ACT 19:2 Paul said to them, "Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed?"
ACT 19:3 Paul said, "Into what then were you baptized?"
ACT 19:4 So Paul replied, "John baptized with the baptism of repentance. He told the people that they should believe in the one who would come after him, that is, in Jesus."
ACT 19:5 When the people heard this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.
ACT 19:6 Then when Paul had laid his hands on them, the Holy Spirit came on them and they spoke in tongues and prophesied.
ACT 19:7 In all they were about twelve men.
ACT 19:8 Paul went into the synagogue and spoke boldly for three months, reasoning and persuading them about the kingdom of God.
ACT 19:9 But when some Jews were hardened and disobedient, they began to speak evil of the Way before the crowd. So Paul left them and took the disciples with him, reasoning with them every day in the lecture hall of Tyrannus.
ACT 19:10 This continued for two years, so that all who lived in Asia heard the word of the Lord, both Jews and Greeks.
ACT 19:11 God was doing extraordinary miracles by the hands of Paul,
ACT 19:12 so that even handkerchiefs and aprons that had touched him were taken to the sick and their illnesses left them and the evil spirits came out of them.
ACT 19:13 But there were Jewish exorcists traveling through the area. They called on the name of the Lord Jesus so they could have power over evil spirits when they said, "By the Jesus whom Paul proclaims, I command you to come out."
ACT 19:14 The Jewish high priest, whose name was Sceva, had seven sons who were doing this.
ACT 19:15 An evil spirit answered them, "Jesus I know, and Paul I know; but who are you?"
ACT 19:16 The evil spirit in the man leaped on the exorcists and subdued them and beat them up. Then they fled out of that house naked and wounded.
ACT 19:17 This became known to all, both Jews and Greeks, who lived at Ephesus. They became very afraid, and the name of the Lord Jesus was honored.
ACT 19:18 Also, many of the believers came and confessed and gave a full account of the evil things they had done.
ACT 19:19 Many who practiced magic brought their books together and burned them in the sight of everyone. When they counted the value of them, it was fifty thousand pieces of silver.
ACT 19:20 So the word of the Lord spread very widely in powerful ways.
ACT 19:21 Now after these things were completed, Paul decided in the Spirit to pass through Macedonia and Achaia on his way to Jerusalem; he said, "After I have been there, I must also see Rome."
ACT 19:22 Paul sent to Macedonia two of those who served him, Timothy and Erastus. But he himself stayed in Asia for a while.
ACT 19:23 At about that time there was no small disturbance in Ephesus concerning the Way.
ACT 19:24 A certain silversmith named Demetrius, who made silver shrines of Artemis, brought in much business for the craftsmen.
ACT 19:25 So he gathered together the workmen of that occupation and said, "Men, you know that in this business we make much money.
ACT 19:26 You see and hear that, not only at Ephesus, but almost throughout all Asia, this Paul has persuaded and turned away many people. He is saying that gods made by hands are not gods.
ACT 19:27 Not only is there danger that our trade will be discredited, but also that the temple of the great goddess Artemis might be regarded as worthless, and her greatness would be brought to nothing, she whom all Asia and the world worship."
ACT 19:28 When they heard this, they were filled with anger and cried out, saying, "Great is Artemis of the Ephesians."
ACT 19:29 The whole city was filled with confusion, and the people rushed with one mind into the theater. They had seized Paul's travel companions, Gaius and Aristarchus, who came from Macedonia.
ACT 19:30 Paul wanted to enter in among the crowd of people, but the disciples prevented him.
ACT 19:31 Also, some of the officials of the province of Asia who were his friends sent him a message pleading with him not to enter the theater.
ACT 19:32 Some people were shouting one thing, and some another, for the crowd was in confusion. Most of them did not even know why they had come together.
ACT 19:33 Some of the crowd advised Alexander, whom the Jews were pushing forward. So Alexander motioned with his hand, wanting to give a defense to the assembly.
ACT 19:34 But when they recognized that he was a Jew, they all cried out for about two hours with one voice, saying, "Great is Artemis of the Ephesians."
ACT 19:35 When the town clerk had quieted the crowd, he said, "You men of Ephesus, what man is there who does not know that the city of the Ephesians is temple keeper of the great Artemis and of the image which fell down from heaven?
ACT 19:36 Seeing then that these things are undeniable, you ought to be quiet and do nothing rash.
ACT 19:37 For you have brought these men to this court who are neither robbers of temples nor blasphemers of our goddess.
ACT 19:38 Therefore, if Demetrius and the craftsmen who are with him have an accusation against anyone, the courts are open and there are proconsuls. Let them accuse one another.
ACT 19:39 But if you are seeking anything more, it should be resolved in the regular assembly.
ACT 19:40 For we are in danger of being accused of rioting today, and there is no cause we can give to justify this uproar." When he had said this, he dismissed the assembly.\f + \ft Some Greek copies number this last sentence as verse 41. \f*
ACT 20:1 After the uproar was over, Paul sent for the disciples and after he encouraged them, he said farewell and left to go into Macedonia.
ACT 20:2 When he had gone through those regions and had spoken many words of encouragement to them, he came to Greece.
ACT 20:3 After he had spent three months there, a plot was formed against him by the Jews as he was about to sail for Syria, so he decided to return through Macedonia.
ACT 20:4 Accompanying him as far as Asia were Sopater son of Pyrrhus from Berea; Aristarchus and Secundus, both from the Thessalonian believers; Gaius of Derbe; Timothy; and Tychicus and Trophimus from Asia.
ACT 20:5 But these men had gone before us and were waiting for us at Troas.
ACT 20:6 We sailed away from Philippi after the days of unleavened bread, and in five days we came to them in Troas. There we stayed for seven days.
ACT 20:7 On the first day of the week, when we were gathered together to break bread, Paul spoke to the believers. He was planning to leave the next day, so he prolonged his message until midnight.
ACT 20:8 There were many lamps in the upper room where we had come together.
ACT 20:9 In the window was sitting a young man named Eutychus, who fell into a deep sleep. As Paul spoke even longer, this young man, still sleeping, fell down from the third story and was picked up dead.
ACT 20:10 But Paul went down, stretched himself out on him, and embraced him. Then he said, "Do not be upset any more, for he is alive."
ACT 20:11 Then he went upstairs again and broke bread and ate. After talking with them much longer until dawn, he left.
ACT 20:12 They brought back the boy alive and were greatly comforted.
ACT 20:13 We ourselves went ahead of Paul by ship and sailed away to Assos, where we planned to take Paul on board. This is what he himself desired to do, because he planned to go by land.
ACT 20:14 When he met us at Assos, we took him onto the ship and went to Mitylene.
ACT 20:15 Then we sailed from there and arrived the next day opposite the island of Chios. The following day we touched at the island of Samos, and the day after we came to the city of Miletus.
ACT 20:16 For Paul had decided to sail past Ephesus, so that he would not spend any time in Asia; for he was hurrying to be in Jerusalem for the day of Pentecost, if it were at all possible for him to do so.
ACT 20:17 From Miletus he sent men to Ephesus and called to himself the elders of the church.
ACT 20:18 When they had come to him, he said to them, "You yourselves know, from the first day that I set foot in Asia, how I always spent my time with you.
ACT 20:19 I kept serving the Lord with all lowliness of mind and with tears, and in trials that happened to me because of the plots of the Jews.
ACT 20:20 You know how I did not keep back from declaring to you anything that was useful, and how I taught you in public and from house to house,
ACT 20:21 testifying to both Jews and Greeks about repentance toward God and of faith in our Lord Jesus.
ACT 20:22 Now look, I am going to Jerusalem, compelled by the Spirit, not knowing what will happen to me there,
ACT 20:23 except that the Holy Spirit testifies to me in every city that chains and afflictions await me.
ACT 20:24 But I do not consider my life valuable to myself, if only I may finish the race and complete the ministry that I received from the Lord Jesus, to testify to the gospel of the grace of God.
ACT 20:25 Now look, I know that you all, among whom I went about proclaiming the kingdom, will see my face no more.
ACT 20:26 Therefore I testify to you this day, that I am innocent of the blood of any man.
ACT 20:27 For I did not hold back from declaring to you the whole will of God.
ACT 20:28 Therefore be careful about yourselves, and about all the flock of which the Holy Spirit has appointed you overseers. Be careful to shepherd the church of God, which he purchased with his own blood.\f + \ft Instead of \fqa with his own blood\fqa*, some ancient copies read, \fqa with the blood of his own Son\fqa*. \f*
ACT 20:29 I know that after my departure, vicious wolves will come in among you and will not spare the flock.
ACT 20:30 Even from your own number men will arise and distort the truth to draw away the disciples after them.
ACT 20:31 So be on guard. Remember that for three years I never stopped warning each one of you night and day with tears.
ACT 20:32 Now I commit you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and to give you the inheritance among all those who are being sanctified.
ACT 20:33 I coveted no man's silver, gold, or clothing.
ACT 20:34 You yourselves know that these hands served my own needs and the needs of those who were with me.
ACT 20:35 In all things I gave you an example of how you should help the weak by laboring, and of how you should remember the words of the Lord Jesus, words that he himself said: 'It is more blessed to give than to receive.'"
ACT 20:36 After he had spoken in this way, he knelt down and prayed with them all.
ACT 20:37 There was a lot of crying and they embraced Paul and kissed him.
ACT 20:38 They were in anguish most of all because of what he had said, that they would never see his face again. Then they escorted him to the ship.
ACT 21:1 When we had gone away from them and set sail, we took a straight course to the city of Cos, and the next day to the city of Rhodes, and from there to the city of Patara.
ACT 21:2 When we found a ship crossing over to Phoenicia, we went aboard and set sail.
ACT 21:3 After sighting Cyprus, leaving it on the left side of the boat, we sailed on to Syria and landed at Tyre, where the ship was to unload its cargo.
ACT 21:4 After we found the disciples, we stayed there seven days. Through the Spirit they kept urging Paul not to go to Jerusalem.
ACT 21:5 When our days there were over, we left and went on our way, and they all, with their wives and children, accompanied us out of the city. Then we knelt down on the beach, prayed,
ACT 21:6 and said farewell to each other. Then we went on board the ship, and they returned home.
ACT 21:7 When we had finished the voyage from Tyre, we arrived at Ptolemais. There we greeted the brothers and stayed with them for one day.
ACT 21:8 On the next day we left and went to Caesarea. We entered the house of Philip, the evangelist, who was one of the seven, and we stayed with him.
ACT 21:9 Now this man had four virgin daughters who prophesied.
ACT 21:10 As we stayed there for some days, a certain prophet named Agabus came down from Judea.
ACT 21:11 He came to us and took Paul's belt. With it he tied his own feet and hands and said, "Thus says the Holy Spirit, 'This is how the Jews in Jerusalem will tie up the man who owns this belt, and they will hand him over into the hands of the Gentiles.'"
ACT 21:12 When we heard these things, both we and the people who lived in that place pleaded with Paul not to go up to Jerusalem.
ACT 21:13 Then Paul answered, "What are you doing, weeping and breaking my heart? For I am ready, not only to be tied up, but also to die in Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus."
ACT 21:14 Since Paul would not be persuaded, we remained silent and then we said, "May the will of the Lord be done."
ACT 21:15 After these days, we picked up our bags and went up to Jerusalem.
ACT 21:16 There also went with us some of the disciples from Caesarea. They brought with them a man named Mnason, a man from Cyprus, an early disciple, with whom we would stay.
ACT 21:17 When we had arrived in Jerusalem, the brothers welcomed us gladly.
ACT 21:18 The next day Paul went with us to James, and all the elders were present.
ACT 21:19 When he had greeted them, he reported one by one the things that God had done among the Gentiles through his ministry.
ACT 21:20 When they heard it, they glorified God, and they said to him, "You see, brother, how many thousands have believed among the Jews. They are all zealous to keep the law.
ACT 21:21 They have been told about you, that you teach all the Jews who live among the Gentiles to abandon Moses, and that you tell them not to circumcise their children, and not to walk according to the traditional ways.
ACT 21:22 What should we do? They will certainly hear that you have come.
ACT 21:23 So do what we say to you. We have four men who made a vow.
ACT 21:24 Take these men and purify yourself with them, and pay their expenses for them, so that they may shave their heads. So everyone will know that the things they have been told about you are false. They will learn that you also live correctly, obeying the law.
ACT 21:25 But concerning the Gentiles who have believed, we wrote about our decision that they should keep themselves from things sacrificed to idols, from blood, from what is strangled, and from sexual immorality."
ACT 21:26 Then Paul took the men, and the next day he purified himself along with them. Then they went into the temple, giving notice when the days of purification would be fulfilled and the offering would be presented for each of them.
ACT 21:27 When the seven days were almost finished, some Jews from Asia, seeing Paul in the temple, stirred up the whole crowd and laid hands on him.
ACT 21:28 They were shouting, "Men of Israel, help us. This is the man who teaches all men everywhere things that are against the people, the law, and this place. Besides, he has also brought Greeks into the temple and has defiled this holy place."
ACT 21:29 For they had previously seen Trophimus the Ephesian with him in the city, and they thought that Paul had brought him into the temple.
ACT 21:30 All the city was excited, and the people ran together and laid hold of Paul. They dragged him out of the temple, and the doors were immediately shut.
ACT 21:31 As they were trying to kill him, news came up to the chief captain of the company of soldiers, that all Jerusalem was in an uproar.
ACT 21:32 Right away he took soldiers and centurions and ran down to the crowd. When the people saw the chief captain and the soldiers, they stopped beating Paul.
ACT 21:33 Then the chief captain approached and laid hold of Paul, and commanded him to be bound with two chains. Then he asked who he was and what he had done.
ACT 21:34 Some in the crowd were shouting one thing and others another. Since the captain could not learn the truth because of all the noise, he ordered that Paul be brought into the fortress.
ACT 21:35 When he came to the steps, he was carried by the soldiers because of the crowd's violence.
ACT 21:36 For the crowd of people followed after and kept shouting out, "Away with him!"
ACT 21:37 As Paul was about to be brought into the fortress, he said to the chief captain, "Is it permitted for me to say something to you?"
ACT 21:38 Are you not then the Egyptian who some time ago started a rebellion and led the four thousand men of the 'Assassins' out into the wilderness?"
ACT 21:39 Paul said, "I am a Jew, from the city of Tarsus in Cilicia. I am a citizen of no unimportant city. I beg you, allow me to speak to the people."
ACT 21:40 When the captain had given him permission, Paul stood on the steps and motioned with the hand to the people. When there was a deep silence, he spoke to them in the Hebrew language. He said,
ACT 22:1 "Brothers and fathers, listen to my defense which I will now make to you."
ACT 22:2 When the crowd heard Paul speak to them in the Hebrew language, they became quiet. He said,
ACT 22:3 "I am a Jew, born in Tarsus of Cilicia, but educated in this city at the feet of Gamaliel. I was instructed according to the strict ways of the law of our fathers. I am zealous for God, just as all of you are today.
ACT 22:4 I persecuted this Way to the death, binding up and delivering to prison both men and women,
ACT 22:5 as the high priest and all the elders can testify. I received letters from them for the brothers in Damascus, and I went there to bring them back in bonds to Jerusalem to be punished.
ACT 22:6 It happened that when I was traveling and nearing Damascus, about noon suddenly a great light from heaven began to shine around me.
ACT 22:7 I fell to the ground and heard a voice say to me, 'Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?'
ACT 22:8 I answered, 'Who are you, Lord?'
ACT 22:9 Those who were with me saw the light, but they did not understand the voice of him who spoke to me.
ACT 22:10 I said, 'What should I do, Lord?'
ACT 22:11 I could not see because of that light's brightness, and being led by the hands of those who were with me, I came into Damascus.
ACT 22:12 There I met a man named Ananias, a devout man according to the law and well spoken of by all the Jews who lived there.
ACT 22:13 He came to me, stood by me, and said, 'Brother Saul, receive your sight.' In that very hour I saw him.
ACT 22:14 Then he said, 'The God of our fathers has appointed you to know his will, to see the Righteous One, and to hear the voice coming from his own mouth.
ACT 22:15 For you will be a witness for him to all men about what you have seen and heard.
ACT 22:16 Now why are you waiting? Arise, be baptized, and wash away your sins, calling on his name.'
ACT 22:17 After I had returned to Jerusalem, and while I was praying in the temple, a trance came on me.
ACT 22:18 I saw him say to me, 'Hurry and leave Jerusalem quickly, because they will not accept your testimony about me.'
ACT 22:19 I said, 'Lord, they themselves know that I imprisoned and beat those who believed in you in every synagogue.
ACT 22:20 When the blood of Stephen your witness was spilled, I also was standing by and agreeing, and I was guarding the cloaks of those who killed him.'
ACT 22:21 But he said to me, 'Go, because I will send you far away to the Gentiles.'"
ACT 22:22 They listened to him until that statement. Then they raised their voices and said, "Away with such a fellow from the earth, for it is not right that he should live."
ACT 22:23 As they were shouting, throwing off their cloaks, and throwing dust into the air,
ACT 22:24 the chief captain commanded Paul to be brought into the fortress. He ordered that he should be questioned with scourging, so that he himself might know why they were shouting against him like that.
ACT 22:25 When they had tied him up with the thongs, Paul said to the centurion who was standing by, "Is it lawful for you to scourge a man who is a Roman and who has not been put on trial?"
ACT 22:26 When the centurion heard this, he went to the chief captain and told him, saying, "What are you about to do? For this man is a Roman citizen."
ACT 22:27 The chief captain came and said to him, "Tell me, are you a Roman citizen?"
ACT 22:28 The chief captain answered, "It was only with a large amount of money that I acquired citizenship."
ACT 22:29 Then the men who were going to question him left him immediately. The chief captain also was afraid, when he learned that Paul was a Roman citizen, because he had tied him up.
ACT 22:30 On the next day, the chief captain wanted to know for certain about the Jews' accusations against Paul. So he untied his bonds and ordered the chief priests and all the council to meet. Then he brought Paul down and placed him in their midst.
ACT 23:1 Paul looked directly at the council members and said, "Brothers, I have lived before God in all good conscience until this day."
ACT 23:2 The high priest Ananias commanded those who stood by him to strike him on the mouth.
ACT 23:3 Then Paul said to him, "God will strike you, you whitewashed wall. Are you sitting to judge me by the law, yet order me to be struck, against the law?"
ACT 23:4 Those who stood by said, "Is this how you insult God's high priest?"
ACT 23:5 Paul said, "I did not know, brothers, that he was high priest. For it is written, 'You must not speak evil of a ruler of your people.'"
ACT 23:6 When Paul saw that the one part of the council were Sadducees and the other Pharisees, he spoke loudly in the council: "Brothers, I am a Pharisee, a son of Pharisees. It is because I have the hope of the resurrection of the dead that I am being judged."
ACT 23:7 When he said this, an argument began between the Pharisees and Sadducees, and the crowd was divided.
ACT 23:8 For the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, no angels, and no spirits, but the Pharisees acknowledge all of them.
ACT 23:9 So a large uproar occurred, and some of the scribes belonging to the Pharisees stood up and argued, saying, "We find nothing wrong with this man. What if a spirit or an angel has spoken to him?"
ACT 23:10 When there arose a great argument, the chief captain feared that Paul would be torn to pieces by them, so he commanded the soldiers to go down and take him by force from among the council members, and bring him into the fortress.
ACT 23:11 The following night the Lord stood beside him and said, "Have courage, for as you have testified about me in Jerusalem, so you must also testify in Rome."
ACT 23:12 When it became day, some Jews formed a conspiracy and put themselves under an oath, saying that they would not eat or drink anything until they had killed Paul.
ACT 23:13 There were more than forty men who formed this conspiracy.
ACT 23:14 They went to the chief priests and the elders and said, "We have sworn a great oath to eat nothing until we have killed Paul.
ACT 23:15 Now, therefore, let the council formally request the chief captain to bring him down to you, as if you would decide his case more precisely. As for us, we are ready to kill him before he comes here."
ACT 23:16 But Paul's sister's son heard that they were lying in wait, so he went and entered the fortress and told Paul.
ACT 23:17 Paul called one of the centurions and said, "Take this young man to the chief captain, for he has something to report to him."
ACT 23:18 So the centurion took the young man and brought him to the chief captain and said, "Paul the prisoner called me to him, and asked me to bring this young man to you. He has something to say to you."
ACT 23:19 The chief captain took him by the hand to a private place and asked him, "What is it that you have to report to me?"
ACT 23:20 The young man said, "The Jews have agreed to ask you to bring down Paul tomorrow to the council, as if they were going to ask more precisely about his case.
ACT 23:21 But do not be persuaded by them, because there are more than forty men who are lying in wait for him. They have put themselves under oath neither to eat nor to drink until they have killed him. Even now they are ready, waiting for your approval."
ACT 23:22 So the chief captain let the young man go, after instructing him, "Tell no one that you have reported these things to me."
ACT 23:23 Then he called to him two of the centurions and said, "Get two hundred soldiers ready to go as far as Caesarea, and seventy horsemen also, and two hundred spearmen. You will leave at the third hour of the night."
ACT 23:24 He also ordered them to provide animals which Paul could ride and to take him safely to Felix the governor.
ACT 23:25 Then he wrote a letter like this: \pi
ACT 23:26 "Claudius Lysias, \pi To the most excellent Governor Felix, \pi Greetings. \pi
ACT 23:27 This man was arrested by the Jews and was about to be killed by them when I came upon them with soldiers and rescued him, since I learned that he was a Roman citizen.
ACT 23:28 I wanted to know why they accused him, so I took him down to their council.
ACT 23:29 I learned that he was being accused about questions concerning their own law, but that there was no accusation against him that deserved death or imprisonment.
ACT 23:30 Then it was reported to me that there was a plot against the man, so I immediately sent him to you and instructed his accusers also to bring their charges against him in your presence. \pi Farewell."
ACT 23:31 So the soldiers obeyed their orders. They took Paul and brought him by night to Antipatris.
ACT 23:32 On the next day, most of the soldiers left the horsemen to go with him and they themselves returned to the fortress.
ACT 23:33 When the horsemen reached Caesarea and delivered the letter to the governor, they also presented Paul to him.
ACT 23:34 When the governor read the letter, he asked what province Paul was from. When he learned that he was from Cilicia,
ACT 23:35 he said, "I will hear you fully when your accusers come here." Then he commanded him to be kept in Herod's government headquarters.
ACT 24:1 After five days, Ananias the high priest, certain elders, and an orator named Tertullus went there. These men brought charges against Paul before the governor.
ACT 24:2 When Paul stood before the governor, Tertullus began to accuse him and said to the governor, "Because of you we have great peace, and your foresight brings good reform to our nation;
ACT 24:3 so with all thankfulness we welcome everything that you do, most excellent Felix.
ACT 24:4 So that I detain you no more, I beg you in your kindness to hear us briefly.
ACT 24:5 For we have found this man to be a pest and one who causes all the Jews throughout the world to rebel. He is a leader of the Nazarene sect.
ACT 24:6 He even tried to desecrate the temple, so we arrested him.\f + \ft Some ancient copies add, \fqa We wanted to judge him according to our law\fqa*. \f*
ACT 24:7 \f + \ft Some ancient copies have for verse 7 and the beginning of verse 8, \fqa 7 But Lysias, the officer, came and took him by force out of our hands, 8 commanding his accusers to come to you\fqa*. \f*
ACT 24:8 When you examine Paul about all these matters, you will be able to learn about all the things of which we are accusing him."
ACT 24:9 The Jews also joined in the accusation, affirming that these charges were true.
ACT 24:10 But when the governor motioned for Paul to speak, Paul answered, "I understand that for many years you have been a judge to this nation, and so I gladly explain myself to you.
ACT 24:11 You can learn for yourself that it has not been more than twelve days since I went up to worship in Jerusalem.
ACT 24:12 When they found me in the temple, I did not argue with anyone, and I did not stir up a crowd, either in the synagogues, or in the city.
ACT 24:13 They cannot prove to you the accusations they are now making against me.
ACT 24:14 But I confess this to you, that according to the Way, which they call a sect, I serve the God of our fathers, believing all things that are according to the law and that has been written in the prophets.
ACT 24:15 I have a hope in God, which these men also have, that there will be a resurrection of both the righteous and the wicked.
ACT 24:16 So I always strive to have a blameless conscience before God and human beings.
ACT 24:17 Now after many years I came to give alms to my nation and present sacrifices.
ACT 24:18 When I did this, certain Jews from Asia found me in a purification ceremony in the temple, not with a crowd or an uproar.
ACT 24:19 These men ought to be before you now and accuse me, if they have anything.
ACT 24:20 Or else, these same men should say what wrong they found in me when I stood before the Jewish council,
ACT 24:21 unless it is about this one thing that I shouted out when I stood among them, 'It is concerning the resurrection of the dead that I am on trial before you today.'"
ACT 24:22 Then Felix, who was well informed about the Way, postponed the hearing. He said, "When Lysias the commander comes down from Jerusalem, I will decide your case."
ACT 24:23 Then he commanded the centurion that Paul should be kept in custody, but to have some freedom so that none of his friends would be prevented from attending to his needs.
ACT 24:24 After some days, Felix returned with Drusilla his wife, who was Jewish, and he sent for Paul and he heard from him about faith in Christ Jesus.
ACT 24:25 But when Paul reasoned with him about righteousness, self-control, and the coming judgment, Felix became frightened and said, "Go away for now. But when I have time later on, I will send for you."
ACT 24:26 At the same time he hoped that Paul would give money to him, so he often sent for him and spoke with him.
ACT 24:27 But when two years passed, Porcius Festus became the governor after Felix, but Felix wanted to gain favor with the Jews, so he left Paul bound.
ACT 25:1 Now, Festus entered the province, and after three days, he went from Caesarea up to Jerusalem.
ACT 25:2 The chief priests and the prominent Jews brought their charges against Paul, and they asked Festus earnestly—
ACT 25:3 asking him to do them a favor against Paul—to summon him to Jerusalem, for they were preparing an ambush to kill him along the way.
ACT 25:4 Festus answered that Paul was being held in custody at Caesarea, and that he himself was going there soon.
ACT 25:5 "Therefore, those who can," he said, "should go there with us. If there is something wrong with the man, you should accuse him."
ACT 25:6 Festus stayed not more than eight or ten days and then he went down to Caesarea, and on the next day he sat on the judgment seat and commanded Paul to be brought to him.
ACT 25:7 When he arrived, the Jews from Jerusalem stood nearby, and they brought many serious charges which they could not prove.
ACT 25:8 Paul defended himself and said, "I have committed no sin against the law of the Jews or against the temple or against Caesar."
ACT 25:9 But Festus wanted to gain the favor of the Jews, and so he answered Paul and said, "Do you want to go up to Jerusalem and to be judged by me about these things there?"
ACT 25:10 Paul said, "I stand before the judgment seat of Caesar where I must be judged. I have wronged no Jews, just as you also very well know.
ACT 25:11 Though if I have done wrong and if I have done what is worthy of death, I do not refuse to die. But if their accusations are nothing, no one can hand me over to them. I appeal to Caesar."
ACT 25:12 After Festus talked with the council, he answered, "You have appealed to Caesar. To Caesar you will go!"
ACT 25:13 Now after some days, King Agrippa and Bernice arrived at Caesarea to pay an official visit to Festus.
ACT 25:14 After they had been there for many days, Festus presented Paul's case to the king; he said, "A certain man was left behind here by Felix as a prisoner.
ACT 25:15 When I was in Jerusalem, the chief priests and the elders of the Jews brought charges against this man to me, and they asked for a sentence of condemnation against him.
ACT 25:16 I answered them that it was not the custom of the Romans to hand over anyone before the accused had faced his accusers and received an opportunity to defend himself against the charges.
ACT 25:17 Therefore, when they came together here, I did not wait, but the next day I sat in the judgment seat and I ordered the man to be brought in.
ACT 25:18 When the accusers stood up, they charged him with nothing that I considered wickedness.
ACT 25:19 Instead, they had certain disputes with him about their own religion and about a certain Jesus who was dead, whom Paul claims to be alive.
ACT 25:20 I was perplexed about how to investigate this matter, and so I asked him if he would be willing to go to Jerusalem to stand trial there about these charges.
ACT 25:21 But when Paul appealed to be kept in custody while awaiting the decision of the emperor, I ordered him to be held in custody until I could send him to Caesar."
ACT 25:22 Agrippa spoke to Festus: "I would also like to listen to this man." "Tomorrow," Festus said, "you will hear him."
ACT 25:23 So on the next day, Agrippa and Bernice came with much ceremony; they came into the hall with the military officers and with the prominent men of the city. When Festus spoke the command, Paul was brought to them.
ACT 25:24 Festus said, "King Agrippa, and all you men who are here with us, you see this man; all the multitude of Jews appealed to me in Jerusalem and here also, and they shouted to me that he should no longer live.
ACT 25:25 I found he had done nothing worthy of death; but because he appealed to the emperor, I decided to send him to Rome.
ACT 25:26 But I do not have anything certain to write to my lord. For this reason, I have brought him to you, especially to you, King Agrippa, so that I might have something more to write about the case.
ACT 25:27 For it seems unreasonable for me to send a prisoner and to not also state the charges against him."
ACT 26:1 So Agrippa said to Paul, "You may speak for yourself." Then Paul stretched out his hand and made his defense.
ACT 26:2 "I consider myself happy, King Agrippa, to make my case before you today against all the accusations of the Jews,
ACT 26:3 especially because you are an expert in all the Jewish customs and questions. So I beg you to hear me patiently.
ACT 26:4 Truly, all the Jews know how I lived from my youth in my own nation and at Jerusalem.
ACT 26:5 They have known about me from the beginning, if they are willing to admit it, that I lived as a Pharisee, the strictest party of our religion.
ACT 26:6 Now I stand here to be judged because of my hope in the promise made by God to our fathers.
ACT 26:7 It is this promise that our twelve tribes hope to receive as they worship God earnestly night and day, and it is for this hope, king, that the Jews are accusing me.
ACT 26:8 Why should any of you judge it to be incredible that God raises the dead?
ACT 26:9 Now indeed, I myself thought that I should do many things against the name of Jesus of Nazareth.
ACT 26:10 I did these in Jerusalem. I locked up in prison many of God's holy people by the authority I received from the chief priests; and when they were killed, I cast my vote against them.
ACT 26:11 I punished them many times in all the synagogues, and I tried to force them to blaspheme. I was furiously enraged against them, and I persecuted them even to foreign cities.
ACT 26:12 While I was doing this, I went to Damascus with authority and orders from the chief priests;
ACT 26:13 and on the way there, in the middle of the day, king, I saw a light from heaven that was brighter than the sun, and it shone around both me and the men who were traveling with me.
ACT 26:14 When we all fell to the ground, I heard a voice speaking to me that said in the Hebrew language, 'Saul, Saul, why do you persecute me? It is hard for you to kick a goad.'
ACT 26:15 Then I said, 'Who are you, Lord?' The Lord replied, 'I am Jesus whom you persecute.
ACT 26:16 Now get up and stand on your feet; because for this purpose I appeared to you, to appoint you to be a servant and a witness concerning the things that you know about me now and the things that I will show to you later;
ACT 26:17 and I will rescue you from the people and from the Gentiles to whom I am sending you,
ACT 26:18 to open their eyes and to turn them from darkness to light and from the dominion of Satan to God, so that they may receive from God the forgiveness of sins and the inheritance that I give to them who are sanctified by faith in me.'
ACT 26:19 Therefore, King Agrippa, I did not disobey the heavenly vision;
ACT 26:20 but, to those in Damascus first, and then at Jerusalem, and throughout all the country of Judea, and also to the Gentiles, I gave them the message that that they should repent and turn to God, doing deeds worthy of repentance.
ACT 26:21 For this cause the Jews arrested me in the temple and tried to kill me.
ACT 26:22 Therefore I have received the help that comes from God until this very day, and I stand and testify to both small and great about nothing more than what the prophets and Moses said would happen—
ACT 26:23 that Christ must suffer, and by being the first to rise from the dead he would proclaim light to our own people and to the Gentiles."
ACT 26:24 As Paul completed his defense, Festus said with a loud voice, "Paul, you are insane; your great learning makes you insane."
ACT 26:25 But Paul said, "I am not insane, most excellent Festus, but I am declaring words of truth and sound judgment.
ACT 26:26 For the king knows about these things; and so I speak boldly to him, for I am persuaded that none of this is hidden from him; for this has not been done in a corner.
ACT 26:27 Do you believe the prophets, King Agrippa? I know that you believe."
ACT 26:28 Agrippa said to Paul, "In a short time would you persuade me and make me a Christian?"
ACT 26:29 Paul said, "I pray to God, that whether in a short or long time, not you only, but also all that hear me today, would be like me, but without these prison chains."
ACT 26:30 Then the king stood up, and the governor, and Bernice also, and those who were sitting with them;
ACT 26:31 when they left the hall, they talked to one another and said, "This man does nothing worthy of death or of bonds."
ACT 26:32 Agrippa said to Festus, "This man could have been freed if he had not appealed to Caesar."
ACT 27:1 When it was decided that we should sail for Italy, they committed Paul and some other prisoners to a centurion named Julius, who belonged to the Augustan company of soldiers.
ACT 27:2 We boarded a ship from Adramyttium which was about to sail along the coast of Asia. So we went to sea. Aristarchus from Thessalonica in Macedonia went with us.
ACT 27:3 The next day we landed at the city of Sidon, where Julius treated Paul kindly and allowed him to go to his friends to receive their care.
ACT 27:4 From there we went to sea and sailed under the lee of Cyprus, close to the island, because the winds were against us.
ACT 27:5 When we had sailed across the sea past Cilicia and Pamphylia, we landed at Myra, a city of Lycia.
ACT 27:6 There, the centurion found a ship from Alexandria that was going to sail to Italy. He put us on it.
ACT 27:7 When we had sailed slowly for many days and had finally arrived with difficulty near Cnidus and the wind no longer allowed us to go that way, we sailed along the sheltered side of Crete, opposite Salmone.
ACT 27:8 We sailed along the coast with difficulty, until we came to a certain place called Fair Havens, which is near the city of Lasea.
ACT 27:9 We had now taken much time, the time of the Jewish fast also had passed, and it had now become dangerous to sail. So Paul warned them,
ACT 27:10 and said, "Men, I see that the voyage we are about to take will be with injury and much loss, not only of the cargo and the ship, but also of our lives."
ACT 27:11 But the centurion was more persuaded by the master and by the owner of the ship than by those things that were spoken by Paul.
ACT 27:12 Because the harbor was not easy to spend the winter in, most of the sailors advised to sail from there, and if by any means we could reach the city of Phoenix, to spend the winter there. Phoenix is a harbor in Crete, facing both southwest and northwest.
ACT 27:13 When a south wind began to blow gently, the sailors thought that they had what they needed. So they weighed anchor and sailed along Crete, close to the shore.
ACT 27:14 But after a short time a wind of hurricane force, called the northeaster, began to beat down from the island.
ACT 27:15 When the ship was caught by the storm and could no longer head into the wind, we had to give way to the storm and were driven along by the wind.
ACT 27:16 We sailed along the lee of a small island called Cauda, and with difficulty we were able to secure the lifeboat.
ACT 27:17 When they had hoisted the lifeboat up, they used its ropes to bind the hull of the ship. They were afraid that they should run upon the sandbars of Syrtis, so they lowered the sea anchor and were driven along.
ACT 27:18 We took such a violent battering by the storm that the next day they began throwing the cargo overboard.
ACT 27:19 On the third day the sailors threw overboard the ship's equipment with their own hands.
ACT 27:20 When the sun and stars did not shine on us for many days, and the great storm still beat upon us, any more hope that we should be saved was abandoned.
ACT 27:21 When they had gone long without food, then Paul stood up among the sailors and said, "Men, you should have listened to me, and not have set sail from Crete, so as to get this injury and loss.
ACT 27:22 Now I urge you to take courage, for there will be no loss of life among you, but only the loss of the ship.
ACT 27:23 For last night an angel of the God to whom I belong, whom also I worship—his angel stood beside me
ACT 27:24 and said, 'Do not be afraid, Paul. You must stand before Caesar, and see, God in his kindness has given to you all those who are sailing with you.'
ACT 27:25 Therefore have courage, men! For I trust God that it will happen just as it was told to me.
ACT 27:26 But we must run aground upon some island."
ACT 27:27 When the fourteenth night had come, as we were driven this way and that in the Adriatic Sea, about midnight the sailors thought that they were approaching some land.
ACT 27:28 They took soundings and found twenty fathoms; after a little while, they took more soundings and found fifteen fathoms.
ACT 27:29 They were afraid that we might crash on the rocks, so they lowered four anchors from the stern and prayed that morning would come soon.
ACT 27:30 The sailors were looking for a way to abandon the ship and had lowered the lifeboat into the sea, and pretended that they would throw down the anchors from the bow.
ACT 27:31 But Paul said to the centurion and to the soldiers, "Unless these men stay in the ship, you cannot be saved."
ACT 27:32 Then the soldiers cut away the ropes of the boat and let it drift away.
ACT 27:33 When daylight was coming on, Paul encouraged them all to take some food. He said, "This day is the fourteenth day that you have been on constant guard and have gone without food—you have not eaten anything.
ACT 27:34 So I urge you to share some food, for this is necessary for you to survive. For not one of you will lose a single hair from his head."
ACT 27:35 When he had said this, he took bread and he thanked God in the sight of everyone. Then he broke the bread and began to eat.
ACT 27:36 Then they were all encouraged and they also took food.
ACT 27:37 We were 276 souls on the ship.
ACT 27:38 When they had eaten enough, they made the ship lighter by throwing out the wheat into the sea.
ACT 27:39 When it was day, they did not recognize the land, but they saw a bay with a beach, and they discussed whether they could drive the ship onto it.
ACT 27:40 So they cut loose the anchors and left them in the sea. At the same time they loosed the ropes of the rudders and raised the foresail to the wind; and so they headed to the beach.
ACT 27:41 But the ship struck a sandbar and ran aground. The bow was stuck there and remained unmovable, and the stern was broken up by the force of the waves.
ACT 27:42 The soldiers' plan was to kill the prisoners so that none of them could swim away and escape.
ACT 27:43 But the centurion wanted to save Paul, so he stopped their plan; and he ordered those who could swim to jump overboard first and get to land.
ACT 27:44 Then the rest of the men should follow, some on planks, and some on other things from the ship. In this way it happened that all of us were brought safely to land.
ACT 28:1 When we were brought safely through, we learned that the island was called Malta.
ACT 28:2 The native people offered to us not just ordinary kindness, but they lit a fire and welcomed us all because of the constant rain and cold.
ACT 28:3 But when Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks and placed them on the fire, a viper came out because of the heat and fastened onto his hand.
ACT 28:4 When the native people saw the animal hanging from his hand, they said one to another, "This man certainly is a murderer who has been saved from the sea; Justice does not permit him to live."
ACT 28:5 But then he shook the animal into the fire and suffered no harm.
ACT 28:6 They were waiting for him to swell up or suddenly fall down dead. But after they watched him for a long time and saw that nothing was wrong with him, they changed their minds and said that he was a god.
ACT 28:7 Now in a nearby place there were lands belonging to the chief man of the island, a man named Publius. He welcomed us and kindly provided for us for three days.
ACT 28:8 It happened that the father of Publius was lying afflicted with a fever and dysentery. When Paul went to him, he prayed, placed his hands on him, and healed him.
ACT 28:9 After this happened, the rest of the people on the island who were sick also came and were healed.
ACT 28:10 The people also honored us with many honors. When we were preparing to sail, they gave us what we needed.
ACT 28:11 After three months we set sail in a ship that had spent the winter at the island, a ship of Alexandria, with "the twin gods" as its figurehead.
ACT 28:12 After we landed at the city of Syracuse, we stayed there three days.
ACT 28:13 From there we sailed and arrived at the city of Rhegium. After one day a south wind sprang up, and in two days we came to the city of Puteoli.
ACT 28:14 There we found some brothers and were invited to stay with them for seven days. In this way we came to Rome.
ACT 28:15 From there the brothers, after they heard about us, came to meet us as far as the Market of Appius and the Three Taverns. When Paul saw the brothers, he thanked God and took courage.
ACT 28:16 When we entered Rome, Paul was allowed to live by himself with the soldier who was guarding him.
ACT 28:17 Then it came about that after three days Paul called together those men who were the leaders among the Jews. When they had come together, he said to them, "Brothers, although I have done nothing wrong against the people or the customs of our fathers, I was delivered as a prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans.
ACT 28:18 After they questioned me, they wished to set me free, because there was no reason for the death penalty in my case.
ACT 28:19 But when the Jews spoke against their desire, I was forced to appeal to Caesar, although it is not as if I were bringing any accusation against my nation.
ACT 28:20 For this reason, therefore, I called upon you that I might see you and speak with you, since it is because of the hope of Israel that I am now wearing this chain."
ACT 28:21 Then they said to him, "We neither received letters from Judea about you, nor did any of the brothers come and report or say anything bad about you.
ACT 28:22 But we want to hear from you what you think about this sect, because it is known by us that it is spoken against everywhere."
ACT 28:23 When they had appointed a day for him, more people came to him at his dwelling place. He presented the matter to them, and testified about the kingdom of God. He tried to persuade them about Jesus, both from the law of Moses and from the prophets, from morning until evening.
ACT 28:24 Some were convinced about the things which were said, while others did not believe.
ACT 28:25 When they did not agree with one another, they left after Paul had spoken this one word: "The Holy Spirit spoke well through Isaiah the prophet to your fathers.
ACT 28:26 He said, 'Go to this people and say, "Hearing you will hear, but you will never understand; seeing, you will see, but you will never know.
ACT 28:27 For the heart of this people has become dull, and with their ears they hardly hear, and they have shut their eyes. Otherwise they might see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart and turn again, and I would heal them."'
ACT 28:28 Therefore, you should know that this salvation of God has been sent to the Gentiles, and they will listen."
ACT 28:29 \f + \ft Acts 28:29—Some ancient copies have verse 29: \fqa When he had said these things, the Jews went away. They were having a great dispute among themselves\fqa*. \f*
ACT 28:30 Paul lived for two whole years in his own rented house, and he welcomed all who came to him.
ACT 28:31 He was proclaiming the kingdom of God and was teaching the things about the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness without being hindered.