PSA 1:1 Blessed is the man who does not walk in the advice of the wicked, or stand in the pathway with sinners, or sit in the assembly of mockers.
PSA 1:2 But his delight is in the law of Yahweh, and on his law he meditates day and night.
PSA 1:3 He will be like a tree planted by the streams of water that produces its fruit in its season, whose leaves do not wither; whatever he does will prosper.
PSA 1:4 The wicked are not so, but are like the chaff that the wind drives away.
PSA 1:5 So the wicked will not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the assembly of the righteous.
PSA 1:6 For Yahweh approves of the way of the righteous, but the way of the wicked will perish.
PSA 2:1 Why are the nations in turmoil, and why do the peoples devise vain plans?
PSA 2:2 The kings of the earth take their stand together and the rulers take counsel together against Yahweh and against his Messiah, saying,
PSA 2:3 "Let us tear off the shackles they put on us and throw off their chains."
PSA 2:4 He who sits in the heavens will sneer at them; the Lord mocks them.
PSA 2:5 Then he will speak to them in his anger and terrify them in his rage, saying,
PSA 2:6 "I myself have set my king in place on Zion, my holy mountain."
PSA 2:7 I will announce a decree of Yahweh. He said to me, "You are my son! This day I have become your Father.
PSA 2:8 Ask me, and I will give you the nations for your inheritance and the ends of the earth for your possession.
PSA 2:9 You will break them with an iron rod; like a jar of a potter, you will smash them to pieces."
PSA 2:10 So now, you kings, be prudent; be corrected, you judges of the earth.
PSA 2:11 Worship Yahweh in fear and rejoice with trembling.
PSA 2:12 Kiss the son or he will be angry with you, and you will die in the way when his anger burns for just a moment. How blessed are all those who seek refuge in him.
PSA 3:1 Yahweh, how many are my enemies! Many have risen against me.
PSA 3:2 Many say about me, "There is no deliverance for him from God." Selah
PSA 3:3 But you, Yahweh, are a shield around me, my glory, and the one who lifts up my head.
PSA 3:4 I lift up my voice to Yahweh, and he answers me from his holy hill. Selah
PSA 3:5 I lay down and slept; I awoke, for Yahweh protected me.
PSA 3:6 I will not be afraid of the multitudes of people who have set themselves against me on every side.
PSA 3:7 Rise up, Yahweh! Save me, my God! For you will hit all my enemies on the jaw; you will break the teeth of the wicked.
PSA 3:8 Salvation comes from Yahweh. May your blessings be on your people. Selah
PSA 4:1 Answer me when I call, God of my righteousness; give me room when I am hemmed in. Have mercy on me and listen to my prayer.
PSA 4:2 You people, how long will you turn my honor into shame? How long will you love what is worthless and seek after lies? Selah
PSA 4:3 But know that Yahweh has set apart the faithful ones for himself. Yahweh will hear when I call to him.
PSA 4:4 Tremble in fear, but do not sin! Meditate in your heart on your bed and be silent. Selah
PSA 4:5 Offer the sacrifices of righteousness and put your trust in Yahweh.
PSA 4:6 Many say, "Who will show us anything good?" Yahweh, lift up the light of your face on us.
PSA 4:7 You have given my heart more gladness than others have when their grain and new wine abound.
PSA 4:8 It is in peace that I will lie down and sleep, for you alone, Yahweh, make me safe and secure.
PSA 5:1 Give ear to my words, Yahweh; think about my groanings.
PSA 5:2 Listen to the sound of my call, my King and my God, for it is to you that I pray.
PSA 5:3 Yahweh, in the morning you hear my cry; in the morning I will bring my petition to you and wait expectantly.
PSA 5:4 Certainly you are not a God who takes pleasure in evil; evil people will not be your guests.
PSA 5:5 The arrogant will not stand in your presence; you hate all who behave wickedly.
PSA 5:6 You will destroy liars; Yahweh abhors the man of bloodshed and deceit.
PSA 5:7 But as for me, because of your great covenant faithfulness, I will come into your house; in reverence I will bow down toward your holy temple.
PSA 5:8 Oh Lord, lead me in your righteousness because of my enemies; make your path straight before me.
PSA 5:9 For there is no truth in their mouth; their inward being is wicked; their throat is an open tomb; they flatter with their tongue.
PSA 5:10 Declare them guilty, God; may their schemes be their downfall! Drive them out for their many transgressions, for they have rebelled against you.
PSA 5:11 But may all those who take refuge in you rejoice; let them always shout for joy because you defend them; let them be joyful in you, those who love your name.
PSA 5:12 For you will bless the righteous, Yahweh; you will surround them with favor as with a shield.
PSA 6:1 Yahweh, do not rebuke me in your anger or discipline me in your wrath.
PSA 6:2 Have mercy on me, Yahweh, for I am frail; heal me, Yahweh, for my bones are shaking.
PSA 6:3 My soul also is very troubled. But you, Yahweh—how long will this continue?
PSA 6:4 Return, Yahweh! rescue me. Save me because of your covenant faithfulness!
PSA 6:5 For in death there is no remembrance of you. In Sheol who will give you thanks?
PSA 6:6 I am weary with my groaning. All night I drench my bed with tears; I dissolve my couch with my tears.
PSA 6:7 My eyes grow dim from grief; they grow weak because of all my adversaries.
PSA 6:8 Get away from me, all you who behave wickedly; for Yahweh has heard the sound of my weeping.
PSA 6:9 Yahweh has heard my appeal for mercy; Yahweh has accepted my prayer.
PSA 6:10 All my enemies will be ashamed and greatly troubled. They will turn back and be suddenly humiliated.
PSA 7:1 Yahweh my God, I take refuge in you! Save me from all who chase me, and rescue me.
PSA 7:2 Otherwise, they will rip me apart like a lion, tearing me in pieces with no one else able to bring me to safety.
PSA 7:3 Yahweh my God, if I have done this, and there is injustice on my hands—
PSA 7:4 if I have done evil to him who was at peace with me, or harmed my enemy for no reason—
PSA 7:5 then let my enemy pursue my life and overtake me; let him trample my life to the ground and lay my honor in the dust. Selah
PSA 7:6 Arise, Yahweh, in your anger; stand up against the rage of my enemies; wake up for my sake and carry out the righteous decrees that you have commanded for them.
PSA 7:7 The peoples are assembled all around you; take once more your rightful place over them.
PSA 7:8 Yahweh, judge the nations; vindicate me, Yahweh, because I am righteous and innocent, Most High.
PSA 7:9 May the evil deeds of the wicked come to an end, but establish the righteous people, righteous God, you who examine hearts and minds.
PSA 7:10 My shield comes from God, the one who saves the upright in heart.
PSA 7:11 God is a righteous judge, a God who is indignant each day.
PSA 7:12 If a person does not repent, God will sharpen his sword and will prepare his bow for battle.
PSA 7:13 He prepares to use deadly weapons against him; he makes his arrows flaming shafts.
PSA 7:14 Think about the one who is pregnant with wickedness, who conceives destructive plans, who gives birth to harmful lies.
PSA 7:15 He digs a pit and hollows it out and then falls into the pit he has made.
PSA 7:16 His own destructive plans return to his own head, for his violence comes down on his own head.
PSA 7:17 I will give thanks to Yahweh for his justice; I will sing praise to the name of Yahweh Most High.
PSA 8:1 Yahweh our Lord, how magnificent is your name in all the earth, you who reveal your glory in the heavens above.
PSA 8:2 Out of the mouth of babies and infants you have established praise\f + \ft The copies of the ancient Hebrew text can be read either as \fqa established praise \fqa* or \fqa established strength\fqa*. \f* because of your enemies, so that you might silence both the enemy and the avenger.
PSA 8:3 When I look up at your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars, which you have set in place,
PSA 8:4 Of what importance is the human race that you notice them, or mankind that you pay attention to them?
PSA 8:5 Yet you have made them only a little lower than the heavenly beings and have crowned them with glory and honor.
PSA 8:6 You make him to rule over the works of your hands; you have put all things under his feet:
PSA 8:7 all sheep and oxen, and even the wild animals of the field,
PSA 8:8 the birds of the heavens, and the fish of the sea, everything that passes through the currents of the seas.
PSA 8:9 Yahweh our Lord, how magnificent is your name in all the earth!
PSA 9:1 I will give thanks to Yahweh with my whole heart; I will tell about all your marvelous deeds.
PSA 9:2 I will be glad and rejoice in you; I will sing praise to your name, Most High!
PSA 9:3 When my enemies turn back, they stumble and perish before you.
PSA 9:4 For you have defended my just cause; you sit on your throne, a righteous judge!
PSA 9:5 You rebuked the nations; you have destroyed the wicked; you have blotted out their name forever and ever.
PSA 9:6 The enemy crumbled like ruins when you overthrew their cities. All remembrance of them has perished.
PSA 9:7 But Yahweh remains forever; he has established his throne for justice.
PSA 9:8 He will judge the world with righteousness, and he will execute judgment for the nations with fairness.
PSA 9:9 Yahweh also will be a stronghold for the oppressed, a stronghold in times of trouble.
PSA 9:10 Those who know your name trust in you, for you, Yahweh, do not abandon those who seek you.
PSA 9:11 Sing praises to Yahweh, who rules in Zion; tell the nations of his deeds.
PSA 9:12 For the God who avenges bloodshed remembers; he does not forget the cry of the oppressed.
PSA 9:13 Have mercy on me, Yahweh; see my affliction by those who hate me, you who can snatch me from the gates of death.
PSA 9:14 Oh, that I might proclaim all your praise. In the gates of the daughter of Zion I will rejoice in your salvation!
PSA 9:15 The nations have sunk down into the pit that they made; their feet are caught in the net that they hid.
PSA 9:16 Yahweh has made himself known; he has executed judgment; the wicked is ensnared by his own actions. Selah
PSA 9:17 The wicked are turned back and sent to Sheol, all the nations that forget God.
PSA 9:18 For the needy will not always be forgotten, nor will the hope of the oppressed be forever dashed.
PSA 9:19 Arise, Yahweh; do not let man win against you; may the nations be judged in your sight.
PSA 9:20 Terrify them, Yahweh; may the nations know that they are mere men. Selah
PSA 10:1 Why, Yahweh, do you stand far off? Why do you hide yourself in times of trouble?
PSA 10:2 Because of their arrogance, wicked people chase the oppressed; but please let the wicked be trapped by their own schemes that they have devised.
PSA 10:3 For the wicked person boasts of his deepest desires; he blesses the greedy and insults Yahweh.
PSA 10:4 The wicked in the haughtiness of his face does not seek God. All his thoughts are that there is no God.
PSA 10:5 He is secure at all times, but your righteous decrees are too high for him; he snorts at all his enemies.
PSA 10:6 He says in his heart," I will never fail; throughout all generations I will not meet adversity."
PSA 10:7 His mouth is full of curses and lies and oppression; under his tongue are mischief and evil.
PSA 10:8 He waits in ambush near the villages; in the secret places he murders the innocent; his eyes look for some helpless victim.
PSA 10:9 He lurks in secret like a lion in the thicket; he lies in wait to catch the oppressed. He catches the oppressed when he pulls in his net.
PSA 10:10 His victims are crushed and beaten down; they fall into his strong nets.
PSA 10:11 He says in his heart, "God has forgotten; he covers his face; he will never see it."
PSA 10:12 Arise, Yahweh! Lift up your hand, God! Do not forget the oppressed.
PSA 10:13 Why does the wicked man reject God and say in his heart, "You will not hold me accountable"?
PSA 10:14 You have taken notice, for you always see the one who inflicts the misery and sorrow. The helpless entrusts himself to you; you rescue the fatherless.
PSA 10:15 Break the arm of the wicked and evil man. Make him account for his evil deeds, which he thought you would not discover.
PSA 10:16 Yahweh is King forever and ever; the nations are driven out of his land.
PSA 10:17 Yahweh, you have heard the needs of the oppressed; you strengthen their heart, you listen to their prayer;
PSA 10:18 You defend the fatherless and the oppressed so that no man on the earth will cause terror again.
PSA 11:1 I take refuge in Yahweh; how will you say to me, "Flee like a bird to the mountain"?
PSA 11:2 For see! The wicked prepare their bows. They make ready their arrows on the strings to shoot in the darkness at the upright in heart.
PSA 11:3 For if the foundations are ruined, what can the righteous do?
PSA 11:4 Yahweh is in his holy temple; his eyes watch, his eyes examine the children of mankind.
PSA 11:5 Yahweh examines both the righteous and the wicked, but he hates those who love to do violence.
PSA 11:6 He rains burning coals and sulfur upon the wicked; a scorching wind will be their portion from his cup!
PSA 11:7 For Yahweh is righteous, and he loves righteousness; the upright will see his face.
PSA 12:1 Help, Yahweh, for the faithful ones have disappeared; those who have integrity have vanished from the children of men.
PSA 12:2 Everyone says empty words to his neighbor; everyone speaks with flattering lips and a double heart.
PSA 12:3 Yahweh, cut off all flattering lips, every tongue declaring great things.
PSA 12:4 These are those who have said, "With our tongues we will prevail. When our lips speak, who can be master over us?"
PSA 12:5 "Because of violence against the poor, because of the groans of the needy, I will arise," says Yahweh. "I will provide the safety for which they long."
PSA 12:6 The words of Yahweh are pure words, like silver purified in a furnace on the earth, refined seven times.
PSA 12:7 You are Yahweh! You keep them. You preserve the godly people from this wicked generation and forever.
PSA 12:8 The wicked walk on every side when evil is exalted among the children of mankind.
PSA 13:1 How long, Yahweh, will you forget me? Forever? How long will you hide your face from me?
PSA 13:2 How long must I worry and have grief in my heart all day? How long will my enemy triumph over me?
PSA 13:3 Look at me and answer me, Yahweh my God! Give light to my eyes, or I will sleep in death.
PSA 13:4 Do not let my enemy say, "I have defeated him," so that my enemy may not say, "I have prevailed over my adversary"; otherwise, my enemies will rejoice when I am brought down.
PSA 13:5 But I have trusted in your covenant faithfulness; my heart rejoices in your salvation.
PSA 13:6 I will sing to Yahweh because he has treated me very generously.
PSA 14:1 A fool says in his heart, "There is no God." They are corrupt and have done abominable iniquity; there is no one who does good.
PSA 14:2 Yahweh looks down from heaven on the children of mankind to see if there are any who understand, who seek after him.
PSA 14:3 They have all turned away. Together they have become corrupt. There is no one who does good, no, not one.
PSA 14:4 Do they not know anything, those who behave wickedly, those who eat up my people as they eat bread, but who do not call on Yahweh?
PSA 14:5 They tremble with dread, for God is with the righteous generation!
PSA 14:6 You want to humiliate the poor person even though Yahweh is his refuge.
PSA 14:7 Oh, that the salvation of Israel would come from Zion! When Yahweh brings back his people from the captivity, then Jacob will rejoice and Israel will be glad!
PSA 15:1 Yahweh, who may stay in your tabernacle? Who may live on your holy hill?
PSA 15:2 Whoever walks blamelessly, does what is right and speaks truth from his heart.
PSA 15:3 He does not slander with his tongue, he does not harm others, and he does not insult his neighbor.
PSA 15:4 The abhorrent is despised in his eyes, but he honors those who fear Yahweh. He swears to his own disadvantage and does not take back his promises.
PSA 15:5 He does not charge interest when he lends money. He does not take bribes to testify against the innocent. He who does these things will never be shaken.
PSA 16:1 Protect me, God, for I take refuge in you.
PSA 16:2 I say to Yahweh, "You are my Lord; my goodness is nothing apart from you.
PSA 16:3 As for the holy people who are on the earth, they are noble people; all my delight is in them.
PSA 16:4 Their troubles will be increased, those who seek out other gods. I will not pour out drink offerings of blood to their gods or lift up their names with my lips.
PSA 16:5 Yahweh, you are my chosen portion and my cup. You hold onto my lot.
PSA 16:6 Measuring lines have been laid for me in pleasant places; surely a beautiful inheritance is mine.
PSA 16:7 I will bless Yahweh, who counsels me; even at night my mind instructs me.
PSA 16:8 I set Yahweh before me at all times, so I will not be shaken from his right hand!
PSA 16:9 Therefore my heart is glad; my glory is rejoicing. Surely I will live in security.
PSA 16:10 For you will not abandon my soul to Sheol. You will not let your faithful one see the pit.
PSA 16:11 You teach me the path of life; abundant joy resides in your presence; delights abide in your right hand forever!"
PSA 17:1 Listen to my plea for justice, Yahweh; pay attention to my cry for help! Give ear to my prayer from lips without deceit.
PSA 17:2 Let my vindication come from your presence; let your eyes see what is right!
PSA 17:3 If you test my heart, if you come to me in the night, you will purify me and will not find any evil plans; my mouth will not transgress.
PSA 17:4 As for the deeds of mankind, it is at the word of your lips that I have kept myself from the ways of the lawless.
PSA 17:5 My steps have held firmly to your tracks; my feet have not slipped.
PSA 17:6 I call to you, for you answer me, God; turn your ear to me and listen when I speak.
PSA 17:7 Show your covenant faithfulness in a wonderful way, you who save by your right hand those who take refuge in you from their enemies!
PSA 17:8 Protect me like the apple of your eye; hide me under the shadow of your wings
PSA 17:9 from the presence of the wicked ones who deal violently with me, my enemies who surround me.
PSA 17:10 They have no mercy on anyone; their mouths speak with pride.
PSA 17:11 They have surrounded my steps. They set their eyes to strike me to the ground.
PSA 17:12 They are like a lion eager for a victim, like a young lion crouching in hidden places.
PSA 17:13 Arise, Yahweh! Attack them! Throw them down on their faces! Rescue my life from the wicked by your sword!
PSA 17:14 Rescue me from men by your hand, Yahweh, from men of this world whose prosperity is in this life alone! You will fill the bellies of your treasured ones with riches; they will have many children and will leave their wealth to their children.
PSA 17:15 As for me, I will see your face in righteousness; I will be satisfied, when I awake, with a sight of you.
PSA 18:1 I love you, Yahweh, my strength.
PSA 18:2 Yahweh is my rock, my fortress, the one who brings me to safety; he is my God, my rock; I take refuge in him. He is my shield, the horn of my salvation, and my stronghold.
PSA 18:3 I will call on Yahweh who is worthy to be praised, and I will be saved from my enemies.
PSA 18:4 The cords of death surrounded me, and the rushing waters of worthlessness overwhelmed me.
PSA 18:5 The cords of Sheol surrounded me; the snares of death trapped me.
PSA 18:6 In my distress I called to Yahweh; I called for help to my God. He heard my voice from his temple; my cry for help went into his presence; it went into his ears.
PSA 18:7 Then the earth shook and trembled; the foundations of the mountains also trembled and were shaken because God was angry.
PSA 18:8 Smoke went up from out of his nostrils, and blazing fire came out of his mouth. Coals were kindled by it.
PSA 18:9 He opened the heavens and came down, and thick darkness was under his feet.
PSA 18:10 He rode on a cherub and flew; he glided on the wings of the wind.
PSA 18:11 He made darkness a tent around him, heavy rainclouds in the skies.
PSA 18:12 Hailstones and coals of fire fell from the lightning before him.
PSA 18:13 Yahweh thundered in the heavens! The voice of the Most High shouted.\f + \ft This verse follows some Hebrew copies and the Septuagint, ending after \fqa shouted\fqa*. Most Hebrew copies have the additional phrase \fqa hailstones and coals of fire\fqa*. \f*
PSA 18:14 He shot his arrows and scattered his enemies; many lightning bolts dispersed them.
PSA 18:15 Then the water channels appeared; the foundations of the world were laid bare at your rebuke, Yahweh, at the blast of the breath of your nostrils.
PSA 18:16 He reached down from above; he took hold of me! He pulled me out of the surging water.
PSA 18:17 He rescued me from my strong enemy, from those who hated me, for they were too strong for me.
PSA 18:18 They came against me on the day of my distress but Yahweh was my support!
PSA 18:19 He set me free in a wide open place; he saved me because he was pleased with me.
PSA 18:20 Yahweh has rewarded me because of my righteousness; he has restored me because my hands were clean.
PSA 18:21 For I have kept the ways of Yahweh and have not wickedly turned away from my God.
PSA 18:22 For all his righteous decrees have been before me; as for his statutes, I have not turned away from them.
PSA 18:23 I have also been innocent before him, and I have kept myself from iniquity.
PSA 18:24 Therefore Yahweh has restored me because of my righteousness, because my hands were clean before his eyes.
PSA 18:25 To one who is faithful, you show yourself to be faithful; to a man who is blameless, you show yourself to be blameless.
PSA 18:26 To one who is pure, you show yourself to be pure; but to one who is perverse, you show yourself to be shrewd.
PSA 18:27 For you save afflicted people, but you abase those with proud, uplifted eyes!
PSA 18:28 For you give light to my lamp; Yahweh my God lights up my darkness.
PSA 18:29 For by you I can run over a barricade; by my God I can leap over a wall.
PSA 18:30 As for God—his way is perfect! The word of Yahweh is pure! He is a shield to everyone who takes refuge in him.
PSA 18:31 For who is God except Yahweh? Who is a rock except our God?
PSA 18:32 It is God who puts strength on me like a belt, who places the blameless person on his path.
PSA 18:33 He makes my feet swift like a deer and places me on the heights!
PSA 18:34 He trains my hands for war and my arms to bend a bow of bronze.
PSA 18:35 You have given me the shield of your salvation. Your right hand has supported me, and your favor has made me great.
PSA 18:36 You have made a wide place for my feet beneath me so that my feet have not slipped.
PSA 18:37 I pursued my enemies and caught them; I did not turn back until they were destroyed.
PSA 18:38 I smashed them so that they were unable to rise; they have fallen under my feet.
PSA 18:39 For you have girded me with strength for battle; you put under me those who rise up against me.
PSA 18:40 You gave me the back of my enemies' necks; I annihilated those who hated me.
PSA 18:41 They called for help, but no one saved them; they called out to Yahweh, but he did not answer them.
PSA 18:42 I beat them into fine pieces like dust before the wind; I threw them out like mud in the streets.
PSA 18:43 You rescued me from the disputes of people; you have made me head over nations; people whom I have not known serve me.
PSA 18:44 As soon as they heard of me, they obeyed me; foreigners were forced to bow to me.
PSA 18:45 The foreigners came trembling out of their strongholds.
PSA 18:46 Yahweh lives; may my rock be praised. May the God of my salvation be exalted.
PSA 18:47 He is the God who executes vengeance for me, who subdues the nations under me.
PSA 18:48 I am set free from my enemies! Indeed, you lifted me above the ones who rose against me! You rescued me from violent men.
PSA 18:49 Therefore I will give thanks to you, Yahweh, among the nations; I will sing praises to your name!
PSA 18:50 God gives great victory to his king, and he shows his covenant loyalty to his anointed one, to David and to his descendants forever.
PSA 19:1 The heavens declare the glory of God, and the skies make known the work of his hands!
PSA 19:2 Day after day speech pours out; night after night it reveals knowledge.
PSA 19:3 There is no speech or spoken words; their voice is not heard.
PSA 19:4 Yet their words go out over all the earth, and their speech to the end of the world. He has pitched a tent for the sun among them.
PSA 19:5 The sun is like a bridegroom coming out of his chamber and like a strong man who rejoices when he runs his race.
PSA 19:6 The sun rises from the one horizon and crosses the sky to the other; nothing escapes its heat.
PSA 19:7 The law of Yahweh is perfect, restoring the soul; the testimony of Yahweh is reliable, making the simple wise.
PSA 19:8 The instructions of Yahweh are right, making the heart glad; the commandment of Yahweh is pure, bringing light to the eyes.
PSA 19:9 The fear of Yahweh is pure, enduring forever; the righteous decrees of Yahweh are true and altogether right!
PSA 19:10 They are of greater value than gold, even more than much fine gold; they are sweeter than honey and the dripping honey from the honeycomb.
PSA 19:11 Yes, by them your servant is warned; in obeying them there is great reward.
PSA 19:12 Who can discern all his own errors? Cleanse me from hidden faults.
PSA 19:13 Keep your servant also from arrogant sins; let them not rule over me. Then I will be perfect, and I will be innocent from many transgressions.
PSA 19:14 May the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, Yahweh, my rock and my redeemer.
PSA 20:1 May Yahweh help you in the day of trouble; may the name of the God of Jacob protect you
PSA 20:2 and send help from the holy place to support you from Zion.
PSA 20:3 May he call to mind all your offerings and accept your burnt sacrifice. Selah
PSA 20:4 May he grant you your heart's desire and fulfill all your plans.
PSA 20:5 Then we will rejoice in your victory, and, in the name of our God, we will raise banners. May Yahweh grant all your petitions.
PSA 20:6 Now I know that Yahweh will rescue his anointed one; he will answer him from his holy heaven with the saving strength of his right hand.
PSA 20:7 Some trust in chariots and others in horses, but we trust in the name of Yahweh our God.
PSA 20:8 They will be brought down and fall, but we will rise and stand upright!
PSA 20:9 Yahweh, rescue the king; help us when we call.
PSA 21:1 The king rejoices in your strength, Yahweh! How greatly he rejoices in the salvation you provide!
PSA 21:2 You have given him his heart's desire and have not held back the request of his lips. Selah
PSA 21:3 For you bring him rich blessings; you placed on his head a crown of purest gold.
PSA 21:4 He asked you for life; you gave it to him; you gave him the length of his days forever and ever.
PSA 21:5 His glory is great because of your victory; you have bestowed on him splendor and majesty.
PSA 21:6 For you grant him lasting blessings; you make him glad with the joy of your presence.
PSA 21:7 For the king trusts in Yahweh; through the covenant faithfulness of the Most High he will not be moved.
PSA 21:8 Your hand will seize all your enemies; your right hand will seize those who hate you.
PSA 21:9 At the time of your anger, you will burn them up as in a fiery furnace. Yahweh will consume them in his wrath, and the fire will devour them.
PSA 21:10 You will destroy their offspring from the earth and their descendants from among the human race.
PSA 21:11 For they intended evil against you; they conceived a plot with which they will not succeed!
PSA 21:12 For you will turn them back; you will draw your bow before them.
PSA 21:13 Be exalted, Yahweh, in your strength; we will sing and praise your power.
PSA 22:1 My God, my God, why have you abandoned me? Why are you so far from saving me and far from the words of my anguish?
PSA 22:2 My God, I cry out in the daytime, but you do not answer, and at night I am not silent!
PSA 22:3 Yet you are holy; you sit as king with the praises of Israel.
PSA 22:4 Our ancestors trusted in you; they trusted in you, and you rescued them.
PSA 22:5 They cried to you and they were rescued. They trusted in you and were not disappointed.
PSA 22:6 But I am a worm and not a man, a disgrace to humanity and despised by the people.
PSA 22:7 All those who see me taunt me; they mock me; they shake their heads at me.
PSA 22:8 They say, "He trusts in Yahweh; let Yahweh rescue him. Let him rescue him, for he delights in him."
PSA 22:9 For you brought me from the womb; you made me trust you when I was on my mother's breasts.
PSA 22:10 I have been thrown on you from the womb; you are my God since I was in my mother's womb!
PSA 22:11 Do not be far away from me, for trouble is near; there is no one to help.
PSA 22:12 Many bulls surround me; strong bulls of Bashan surround me.
PSA 22:13 They open their mouths wide against me like a roaring lion ripping its victim.
PSA 22:14 I am being poured out like water, and all my bones are dislocated. My heart is like wax; it melts away within my inner parts.
PSA 22:15 My strength has dried up like a piece of pottery; my tongue sticks to the roof of my mouth. You have laid me in the dust of death.
PSA 22:16 For dogs have surrounded me; a company of evildoers has encircled me; they have pierced my hands and my feet.
PSA 22:17 I can count all my bones. They look and stare at me.
PSA 22:18 They divide my garments among themselves, they cast lots for my clothes.
PSA 22:19 Do not be far away, Yahweh; please hurry to help me, my strength!
PSA 22:20 Rescue my soul from the sword, my only life from the claws of wild dogs.
PSA 22:21 Save me from the lion's mouth; rescue me from the horns of the wild oxen.
PSA 22:22 I will declare your name to my brothers; in the midst of the assembly I will praise you.
PSA 22:23 You who fear Yahweh, praise him! All you descendants of Jacob, honor him! Stand in awe of him, all you descendants of Israel!
PSA 22:24 For he has not despised or abhorred the suffering of the afflicted one; Yahweh has not hidden his face from him; when the afflicted one cried to him, he heard.
PSA 22:25 My praise will be because of you in the great assembly; I will fulfill my vows before those who fear him.
PSA 22:26 The oppressed will eat and be satisfied; those who seek Yahweh will praise him. May your hearts live forever.
PSA 22:27 All the peoples of the earth will remember and turn to Yahweh; all the families of the nations will bow down before you.
PSA 22:28 For the kingdom is Yahweh's; he is the ruler over the nations.
PSA 22:29 All the prosperous people of the earth will feast and will worship; all those who are descending into the dust will bow before him, those who cannot preserve their own souls alive.
PSA 22:30 A generation to come will serve him; they will tell the next generation of the Lord.
PSA 22:31 They will come and tell of his righteousness; they will tell to a people not yet born what he has done!
PSA 23:1 Yahweh is my shepherd; I will lack nothing.
PSA 23:2 He makes me to lie down in green pastures; he leads me beside tranquil water.
PSA 23:3 He brings back my life; he guides me along paths that are right for his name's sake.
PSA 23:4 Even though I walk through the darkest valley, I will fear no harm, for you are with me; your rod and your staff comfort me.
PSA 23:5 You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies; you have anointed my head with oil; my cup runs over.
PSA 23:6 Surely goodness and covenant faithfulness will pursue me all the days of my life; and I will live in the house of Yahweh for the length of my days!
PSA 24:1 The earth is Yahweh's, and its fullness, the world, and all who live in it.
PSA 24:2 For he has founded it upon the seas and established it on the rivers.
PSA 24:3 Who will ascend the mountain of Yahweh? Who will stand in his holy place?
PSA 24:4 He who has clean hands and a pure heart; who has not lifted up a falsehood, and has not sworn an oath in order to deceive.
PSA 24:5 He will receive a blessing from Yahweh and righteousness from the God of his salvation.
PSA 24:6 Such is the generation of those who seek him, those who seek the face of the God of Jacob. Selah
PSA 24:7 Lift up your heads, you gates; be lifted up, everlasting doors, so that the King of glory may come in!
PSA 24:8 Who is this King of glory? Yahweh, strong and mighty; Yahweh, mighty in battle.
PSA 24:9 Lift up your heads, you gates; be lifted up, everlasting doors, so that the King of glory may come in!
PSA 24:10 Who is this King of glory? Yahweh of hosts, he is the King of glory. Selah
PSA 25:1 To you, Yahweh, I lift up my life!
PSA 25:2 My God, I trust in you. Do not let me be humiliated; do not let my enemies rejoice triumphantly over me.
PSA 25:3 May no one who hopes in you be disgraced; may those who act treacherously without cause be ashamed!
PSA 25:4 Make known to me your ways, Yahweh; teach me your paths.
PSA 25:5 Guide me into your truth and teach me, for you are the God of my salvation; I hope in you all day long.
PSA 25:6 Call to mind, Yahweh, your acts of compassion and of covenant faithfulness; for they have always existed.
PSA 25:7 Do not think about the sins of my youth or my rebelliousness; Call me to mind with covenant faithfulness because of your goodness, Yahweh!
PSA 25:8 Yahweh is good and upright; therefore he teaches sinners the way.
PSA 25:9 He guides the humble in what is right and he teaches them his way.
PSA 25:10 All the paths of Yahweh are steadfast love and faithfulness to those who keep his covenant and his solemn commands.
PSA 25:11 For your name's sake, Yahweh, pardon my iniquity, for it is great.
PSA 25:12 Who is the man who fears Yahweh? The Lord will instruct him in the way that he should choose.
PSA 25:13 His life will go along in goodness; and his descendants will inherit the land.
PSA 25:14 The friendship of Yahweh is for those who honor him, and he makes his covenant known to them.
PSA 25:15 My eyes are always on Yahweh, for he will free my feet from the net.
PSA 25:16 Turn toward me and have mercy on me; for I am alone and afflicted.
PSA 25:17 The troubles of my heart are enlarged; draw me out from my distress!
PSA 25:18 See my affliction and my toils; forgive all my sins.
PSA 25:19 See my enemies, for they are many; they hate me with violent hatred.
PSA 25:20 Protect my life and rescue me; do not let me be humiliated, for I take refuge in you!
PSA 25:21 May integrity and uprightness preserve me, for I hope in you.
PSA 25:22 Rescue Israel, God, from all of his troubles!
PSA 26:1 Judge me, Yahweh, for I have walked with integrity; I have trusted in Yahweh without wavering.
PSA 26:2 Examine me, Yahweh, and test me; test the purity of my inner parts and my heart!
PSA 26:3 For your covenant faithfulness is before my eyes, and I walk about in your faithfulness.
PSA 26:4 I do not associate with deceitful people, nor do I mingle with dishonest people.
PSA 26:5 I hate the assembly of evildoers, and I do not live with the wicked.
PSA 26:6 I wash my hands in innocence, and I go around your altar, Yahweh,
PSA 26:7 to sing a loud song of praise and report all your wonderful deeds.
PSA 26:8 Yahweh, I love the house where you live, the place where your glory lives!
PSA 26:9 Do not sweep me away with sinners, or my life with men of bloodshed,
PSA 26:10 in whose hands there is a plot, and whose right hand is full of bribes.
PSA 26:11 But as for me, I will walk in integrity; redeem me and have mercy on me.
PSA 26:12 My foot stands on level ground; in the assemblies will I bless Yahweh!
PSA 27:1 Yahweh is my light and my salvation; whom should I fear? Yahweh is my life's refuge; whom should I dread?
PSA 27:2 When evildoers approached me to devour my flesh, my adversaries and my enemies stumbled and fell.
PSA 27:3 Though an army encamps against me, my heart will not fear; though war rises up against me, even then I will remain confident.
PSA 27:4 One thing have I asked of Yahweh, and I will seek that: that I may live in the house of Yahweh all the days of my life, to see the beauty of Yahweh and to meditate in his temple.
PSA 27:5 For in the day of trouble he will hide me in his shelter; in the cover of his tent he will conceal me. He will lift me high on a rock!
PSA 27:6 Then my head will be lifted up above my enemies all around me, and I will offer sacrifices of joy in his tent! I will sing and make songs to Yahweh!
PSA 27:7 Hear, Yahweh, my voice when I cry out! Have mercy on me, and answer me!
PSA 27:8 My heart says about you, "Seek his face!" I seek your face, Yahweh!
PSA 27:9 Do not hide your face from me; do not turn your servant away in anger! You have been my helper; do not abandon me or reject me, God of my salvation!
PSA 27:10 Even if my father and my mother abandon me, Yahweh will take me in.
PSA 27:11 Teach me your way, Yahweh! Lead me on a level path because of my enemies.
PSA 27:12 Do not give me up to the desires of my enemies, for false witnesses have risen up against me, and they breathe out violence!
PSA 27:13 What would have happened to me if I had not believed that I would see the goodness of Yahweh in the land of the living?
PSA 27:14 Wait for Yahweh; be strong, and let your heart be courageous! Wait for Yahweh!
PSA 28:1 To you, Yahweh, I cry out; my rock, do not ignore me. If you do not respond to me, I will join those who go down to the pit.
PSA 28:2 Hear the sound of my pleading when I call for help from you, when I lift up my hands toward your most holy place!
PSA 28:3 Do not drag me away with the wicked, those who behave wickedly, who speak peace with their neighbors but have evil in their hearts.
PSA 28:4 Give them what their deeds deserve and repay them what their wickedness demands; repay them for the work of their hands and render to them their due.
PSA 28:5 Because they do not understand the deeds of Yahweh or the work of his hands, he will break them down and never rebuild them.
PSA 28:6 Blessed be Yahweh because he has heard the sound of my pleading!
PSA 28:7 Yahweh is my strength and my shield; my heart trusts in him, and I am helped. Therefore my heart greatly rejoices, and I will praise him with singing.
PSA 28:8 Yahweh is the strength of his people, and he is the saving refuge of his anointed one.
PSA 28:9 Save your people and bless your inheritance. Be their shepherd and carry them forever.
PSA 29:1 Ascribe to Yahweh, you sons of God, ascribe to Yahweh glory and strength!
PSA 29:2 Ascribe to Yahweh the glory his name deserves. Bow down to Yahweh in the splendor of holiness!
PSA 29:3 The voice of Yahweh is heard over the waters; the God of glory thunders, Yahweh thunders over many waters.
PSA 29:4 The voice of Yahweh is powerful; the voice of Yahweh is majestic.
PSA 29:5 The voice of Yahweh breaks the cedars; Yahweh breaks in pieces the cedars of Lebanon.
PSA 29:6 He makes Lebanon skip like a calf and Sirion like a young ox.
PSA 29:7 The voice of Yahweh sends out flames of fire.
PSA 29:8 The voice of Yahweh shakes the wilderness; Yahweh shakes the wilderness of Kadesh.
PSA 29:9 The voice of Yahweh causes the oaks to twist and strips the forests bare. Everyone in his temple says, "Glory!"
PSA 29:10 Yahweh sits as king over the flood; Yahweh sits as king forever.
PSA 29:11 Yahweh gives strength to his people; Yahweh blesses his people with peace.
PSA 30:1 I will exalt you, Yahweh, for you have raised me up and have not allowed my enemies to rejoice over me.
PSA 30:2 Yahweh my God, I cried to you for help, and you healed me.
PSA 30:3 Yahweh, you have brought up my soul from Sheol; you have kept me alive from going down to the pit.
PSA 30:4 Sing praises to Yahweh, you his faithful ones! Give thanks when you remember his holiness.
PSA 30:5 For his anger is only for a moment; but his favor is for a lifetime. Weeping comes for a night, but joy comes in the morning.
PSA 30:6 In confidence I said, "I will never be shaken."
PSA 30:7 Yahweh, by your favor you established me as a strong mountain; but when you hid your face, I was troubled.
PSA 30:8 I cried to you, Yahweh, and sought favor from my Lord!
PSA 30:9 What advantage is there in my blood, if I go down to the grave? Will the dust praise you? Will it declare your trustworthiness?
PSA 30:10 Hear, Yahweh, and have mercy on me! Yahweh, be my helper.
PSA 30:11 You have turned my mourning into dancing; you have removed my sackcloth and clothed me with gladness.
PSA 30:12 So now my glory will sing praise to you and not be silent; Yahweh my God, I will give thanks to you forever!
PSA 31:1 In you, Yahweh, I take refuge; never let me be humiliated. Rescue me in your righteousness.
PSA 31:2 Listen to me; rescue me quickly; be my rock of refuge, a stronghold to save me.
PSA 31:3 For you are my rock and my fortress; therefore for your name's sake, lead and guide me.
PSA 31:4 Pluck me out of the net that they have hidden for me, for you are my refuge.
PSA 31:5 Into your hands I entrust my spirit; you will redeem me, Yahweh, God of trustworthiness.
PSA 31:6 I hate those who serve worthless idols, but I trust in Yahweh.
PSA 31:7 I will be glad and rejoice in your covenant faithfulness, for you saw my affliction; you knew the distress of my soul.
PSA 31:8 You have not given me into the hand of my enemy. You have set my feet in a wide open place.
PSA 31:9 Have mercy upon me, Yahweh, for I am in distress; my eyes grow weary with grief with my soul and my body.
PSA 31:10 For my life is weary with sorrow and my years with groaning. My strength fails because of my iniquity, and my bones are wasting away.
PSA 31:11 Because of all my enemies, I have become contemptible; my neighbors are appalled at my situation, and those who know me are horrified. Those who see me in the street run from me.
PSA 31:12 I am forgotten as a dead man whom no one thinks about. I am like a broken pot.
PSA 31:13 For I have heard the whispering of many, terrifying news from every side as they plot together against me. They plot to take away my life.
PSA 31:14 But I trust in you, Yahweh; I say, "You are my God."
PSA 31:15 My times are in your hand. Rescue me from the hands of my enemies and from those who pursue me.
PSA 31:16 Make your face shine on your servant; save me in your covenant faithfulness.
PSA 31:17 Do not let me be humiliated, Yahweh; for I call out to you! May the wicked be humiliated! May they be silent in Sheol.
PSA 31:18 May lying lips be silenced that speak against the righteous defiantly with arrogance and contempt.
PSA 31:19 How great is your goodness that you have stored up for those who revere you, that you perform for those who take refuge in you before all the children of mankind!
PSA 31:20 In the shelter of your presence, you hide them from the plots of men. You hide them in a shelter from the strife of tongues.
PSA 31:21 Blessed be Yahweh, for he showed me his marvelous covenant faithfulness when I was in a besieged city.
PSA 31:22 Though I said in my alarm, "I am cut off from your eyes," yet you heard my plea for help when I cried to you.
PSA 31:23 Love Yahweh, all you faithful ones. Yahweh protects the faithful, but he pays back the arrogant in full.
PSA 31:24 Be strong and let your heart take courage, all you who trust in Yahweh for help.
PSA 32:1 Blessed is the person whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered.
PSA 32:2 Blessed is the man to whom Yahweh reckons no guilt and in whose spirit there is no deceit.
PSA 32:3 When I remained silent, my bones were wasting away while I groaned all day long.
PSA 32:4 For day and night your hand was heavy upon me. My strength withered as in summer drought. Selah
PSA 32:5 Then I acknowledged my sin to you, and I no longer hid my iniquity. I said, "I will confess my transgressions to Yahweh," and you forgave the guilt of my sin. Selah
PSA 32:6 For this reason every one of your faithful followers should pray to you at a time of great distress. When the surging waters overflow, the waters will not reach them.
PSA 32:7 You are my hiding place; you will guard me from trouble. You will surround me with the songs of victory. Selah
PSA 32:8 I will instruct you and teach you in the way which you should go. I will counsel you with my eye upon you.
PSA 32:9 Do not be like a horse or like a mule, which have no understanding; it is only with bridle and bit to control them that they will go where you want them to.
PSA 32:10 The wicked have many sorrows, but Yahweh's covenant faithfulness will surround the one who trusts in him.
PSA 32:11 Be glad in Yahweh, and rejoice, you righteous; shout for joy, all you who are upright in heart.
PSA 33:1 Rejoice in Yahweh, you righteous; praise is appropriate for the upright.
PSA 33:2 Give thanks to Yahweh with the harp; sing praises to him with the lute having ten strings.
PSA 33:3 Sing to him a new song; play skillfully and shout for joy.
PSA 33:4 For Yahweh's word is upright, and all his deeds are done in faithfulness.
PSA 33:5 He loves righteousness and justice. The earth is full of Yahweh's covenant faithfulness.
PSA 33:6 By the word of Yahweh the heavens were made, and all the stars were made by the breath of his mouth.
PSA 33:7 He gathers the waters of the sea together like a heap; he puts the oceans in storehouses.
PSA 33:8 Let the whole earth fear Yahweh; let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him.
PSA 33:9 For he spoke, and it was done; he commanded, and it stood in place.
PSA 33:10 Yahweh frustrates the alliances of nations; he overrules the plans of the peoples.
PSA 33:11 The plans of Yahweh stand forever, the plans of his heart for all generations.
PSA 33:12 Blessed is the nation whose God is Yahweh, the people whom he has chosen as his own inheritance.
PSA 33:13 Yahweh looks from heaven; he sees all the people.
PSA 33:14 From the place where he lives, he looks down on all who live on the earth.
PSA 33:15 He who shapes the hearts of them all observes all their deeds.
PSA 33:16 No king is saved by a vast army; a warrior is not saved by his great strength.
PSA 33:17 A horse is a false hope for victory; in spite of his great strength, he cannot rescue.
PSA 33:18 See, Yahweh's eye is on those who fear him, on those who hope in his covenant faithfulness
PSA 33:19 to deliver their lives from death and to keep them alive in times of famine.
PSA 33:20 We wait for Yahweh; he is our help and our shield.
PSA 33:21 Our hearts rejoice in him, for we trust in his holy name.
PSA 33:22 Let your covenant faithfulness, Yahweh, be with us as we put our hope in you.
PSA 34:1 I will praise Yahweh at all times, his praise will always be in my mouth.
PSA 34:2 I will praise Yahweh! May the oppressed hear and rejoice.
PSA 34:3 Praise Yahweh with me, let us lift up his name together.
PSA 34:4 I sought Yahweh and he answered me, and he gave me victory over all my fears.
PSA 34:5 Those who look to him are radiant, and their faces are not ashamed.
PSA 34:6 This oppressed man cried and Yahweh heard him and saved him from all his troubles.
PSA 34:7 The angel of Yahweh camps around those who fear him and rescues them.
PSA 34:8 Taste and see that Yahweh is good. Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him.
PSA 34:9 Fear Yahweh, you his holy people. There is no lack for those who fear him.
PSA 34:10 The young lions sometimes lack food and suffer hunger, but those who seek Yahweh will not lack anything good.
PSA 34:11 Come, sons, listen to me. I will teach you the fear of Yahweh.
PSA 34:12 What man is there who delights in life and loves many days, that he may see good?
PSA 34:13 Then keep your tongue from evil and keep your lips from speaking lies.
PSA 34:14 Turn away from evil and do good. Seek peace and go after it.
PSA 34:15 The eyes of Yahweh are on the righteous and his ears are directed toward their cry.
PSA 34:16 The face of Yahweh is against those who do evil, to cut off the memory of them from the earth.
PSA 34:17 The righteous cry out and Yahweh hears and he rescues them from all their troubles.
PSA 34:18 Yahweh is close to the brokenhearted, and he saves those who are crushed in spirit.
PSA 34:19 Many are the troubles of the righteous, but Yahweh delivers them out of them all.
PSA 34:20 He keeps all his bones, not one of them will be broken.
PSA 34:21 Evil will kill the wicked. Those who hate the righteous will be condemned.
PSA 34:22 Yahweh rescues the lives of his servants. None of those who take refuge in him will be condemned.
PSA 35:1 Yahweh, work against those who work against me; fight against those who fight against me.
PSA 35:2 Grab your small shield and large shield; rise up and help me.
PSA 35:3 Use your spear and battle ax against those who chase me; say to my soul, "I am your salvation."
PSA 35:4 May those who seek my life be shamed and dishonored. May those who plan to harm me be turned back and ashamed.
PSA 35:5 May they be as chaff before the wind, as the angel of Yahweh drives them away.
PSA 35:6 May their way be dark and slippery, as the angel of Yahweh chases them.
PSA 35:7 Without cause they set their net for me; without cause they dug a pit for my life.
PSA 35:8 Let destruction overtake them by surprise. Let the net that they have set catch them. Let them fall into it, to their destruction.
PSA 35:9 But I will be joyful in Yahweh and rejoice in his salvation.
PSA 35:10 All my bones will say, "Yahweh, who is like you, who rescues the oppressed from those who are too strong for them and the poor and needy from those who try to rob them?"
PSA 35:11 Unrighteous witnesses rise up; they accuse me falsely.
PSA 35:12 They repay me evil for good. I am sorrowful.
PSA 35:13 As for me, when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth; I fasted for them, and my prayer returned to my bosom.
PSA 35:14 I went about in grief as for my brother; I bent down in mourning as for my mother.
PSA 35:15 But when I stumbled, they rejoiced and gathered together; they gathered together against me, and I was surprised by them. They tore at me without stopping.
PSA 35:16 With no respect at all they mocked me; they grind their teeth at me in rage.
PSA 35:17 Lord, how long will you look on? Rescue my soul from their destructive attacks, my only life from the lions.
PSA 35:18 Then I will thank you in the great assembly; I will praise you among many people.
PSA 35:19 Do not let my deceitful enemies rejoice over me; do not let them carry out their wicked schemes.
PSA 35:20 For they do not speak peace, but they devise deceitful words against those in our land who live in peace.
PSA 35:21 They open their mouths wide against me; they said, "Aha, Aha, our eyes have seen it."
PSA 35:22 You have seen it, Yahweh, do not be silent; Lord, do not be far from me.
PSA 35:23 Arouse yourself and awake to my defense; My God and my Lord, defend my cause.
PSA 35:24 Defend me, Yahweh my God, because of your righteousness; do not let them rejoice over me.
PSA 35:25 Do not let them say in their heart, "Aha, we have what we wanted." Do not let them say, "We have devoured him."
PSA 35:26 May they be put to shame and may they be humiliated who rejoice at my distress. May those who exalt themselves over me be clothed with shame and dishonor.
PSA 35:27 Let those who desire my vindication shout for joy and be glad; may they say continually, "Yahweh be praised, he who delights in the welfare of his servant."
PSA 35:28 Then I will tell of your justice and praise you all day long.
PSA 36:1 An evil man speaks of his transgression from deep in his heart, there is no fear of God in his eyes.
PSA 36:2 For he comforts himself, thinking that his iniquity will not be discovered and be hated.
PSA 36:3 The words of his mouth are wickedness and deceit; he does not want to be wise and do good.
PSA 36:4 While he lies in bed, he plans ways to sin; he sets out on an evil way; he does not reject evil.
PSA 36:5 Your covenant faithfulness, Yahweh, reaches to the heavens; your faithfulness reaches to the clouds.
PSA 36:6 Your righteousness is like the mountains of God; your judgments are like the great deep. Yahweh, you preserve both mankind and the animals.
PSA 36:7 How precious is your covenant faithfulness, God! Humanity takes refuge under the shadow of your wings.
PSA 36:8 They feast upon the abundance of your house; you let them drink from the river of your delights.
PSA 36:9 For with you is the fountain of life; in your light we will see light.
PSA 36:10 Extend your covenant faithfulness fully to those who know you, your defense to the upright of heart.
PSA 36:11 Do not let the foot of the arrogant man come near to me. Do not let the hand of the wicked drive me away.
PSA 36:12 Over there those who behave wickedly have fallen; they have been pushed down and are not able to get up.
PSA 37:1 Do not be irritated because of evildoers; do not be envious of those who act unrighteously.
PSA 37:2 For they will soon dry up as the grass and wither as the green plants.
PSA 37:3 Trust in Yahweh and do what is good; settle in the land and graze in faithfulness.
PSA 37:4 Then delight yourself in Yahweh, and he will give you the desires of your heart.
PSA 37:5 Give your ways to Yahweh; trust in him, and he will act on your behalf.
PSA 37:6 He will display your justice like the daylight and your innocence like the day at noon.
PSA 37:7 Be still before Yahweh and wait patiently for him. Do not be angry if someone succeeds in what he does, or when he makes evil plots.
PSA 37:8 Do not be angry and frustrated. Do not worry. This only makes trouble.
PSA 37:9 Evildoers will be cut off, but those who wait for Yahweh will inherit the land.
PSA 37:10 In a little while the evil man will disappear; you will look at his place, but he will be gone.
PSA 37:11 But the meek will inherit the land and will delight in great prosperity.
PSA 37:12 The wicked man plots against the righteous and he grinds his teeth in rage against him.
PSA 37:13 The Lord laughs at him, for he sees that his day is coming.
PSA 37:14 The wicked have drawn out their swords and have bent their bows to cast down the oppressed and needy, to kill those who are upright.
PSA 37:15 Their swords will pierce their own hearts, and their bows will be broken.
PSA 37:16 Better is the little that the righteous has than the abundance of many wicked people.
PSA 37:17 For the arms of the wicked people will be broken, but Yahweh supports the righteous people.
PSA 37:18 Yahweh watches over the blameless day by day, and their heritage will be forever.
PSA 37:19 They will not be ashamed when times are bad. When famine comes, they will have enough to eat.
PSA 37:20 But evil men will perish. Yahweh's enemies will be like the splendor of the pastures; they will be consumed and disappear in the smoke.
PSA 37:21 The wicked person borrows but does not repay, but the righteous person is generous and gives.
PSA 37:22 Those who are blessed by God will inherit the land; those who are cursed by him will be cut off.
PSA 37:23 It is by Yahweh that a man's steps are established, the man whose way is commendable in God's sight.
PSA 37:24 Though he stumbles, he will not fall down, for Yahweh is holding him with his hand.
PSA 37:25 I was young and now am old; I have never seen the righteous person abandoned or his children begging for bread.
PSA 37:26 All the day long he is gracious and lends, and his children become a blessing.
PSA 37:27 Turn away from evil and do what is right; then you will be safe forever.
PSA 37:28 For Yahweh loves justice and does not abandon his faithful ones. They are preserved forever, but the descendants of the wicked will be cut off.
PSA 37:29 The righteous will inherit the land and live there forever.
PSA 37:30 The mouth of the righteous person speaks wisdom and increases justice.
PSA 37:31 The law of his God is in his heart; his feet will not slip.
PSA 37:32 The wicked person spies on the righteous person and seeks to kill him.
PSA 37:33 Yahweh will not abandon him into the evil person's hand or condemn him when he is judged.
PSA 37:34 Wait for Yahweh and keep his way, and he will raise you up to possess the land. You will see when the wicked are cut off.
PSA 37:35 I have seen the wicked and terrifying person spread out like a green tree in its native soil.
PSA 37:36 But when I passed by again, he was not there. I looked for him, but he could not be found.
PSA 37:37 Observe the man of integrity, and mark the upright; there is a good future for a man of peace.
PSA 37:38 Rebels will be totally destroyed; the future for the wicked man is cut off.
PSA 37:39 Salvation of the righteous comes from Yahweh; he is their place of safety in the times of trouble.
PSA 37:40 Yahweh helps them and rescues them. He rescues them from evil men and saves them because they have taken refuge in him.
PSA 38:1 Yahweh, do not rebuke me in your anger; do not punish me in your wrath.
PSA 38:2 For your arrows pierce me, and your hand presses me down.
PSA 38:3 There is no soundness in my body because of your anger; there is no health in my bones because of my sin.
PSA 38:4 For my iniquities overwhelm me; they are a burden too heavy for me.
PSA 38:5 My wounds are infected and smell because of my foolish sins.
PSA 38:6 I am stooped over and humiliated every day; I go about mourning all day long.
PSA 38:7 For within me, I am filled with burning; there is no health in my flesh.
PSA 38:8 I am numb and utterly crushed; I groan because of the anguish of my heart.
PSA 38:9 Lord, you understand my heart's deepest yearnings, and my groanings are not hidden from you.
PSA 38:10 My heart pounds, my strength fades, and the light of my eyes, even that is not with me.
PSA 38:11 My friends and companions shun me because of my condition; my neighbors stand far off.
PSA 38:12 Those who seek my life lay snares for me. They who seek my harm speak destructive words and say deceitful words all day long.
PSA 38:13 But I, I am like a deaf man and hear nothing; I am like a mute man who says nothing.
PSA 38:14 I am like a man who does not hear and who has no reply.
PSA 38:15 Surely I wait for you, Yahweh; you will answer, Lord my God.
PSA 38:16 I say this so that my enemies will not rejoice over me. If my foot slips, they will do terrible things to me.
PSA 38:17 For I am about to stumble, and I am in constant pain.
PSA 38:18 I confess my guilt; I am anxious about my sin.
PSA 38:19 But my enemies are numerous; those who hate me wrongfully are many.
PSA 38:20 They repay me evil for good; they hurl accusations at me although I have pursued what is good.
PSA 38:21 Do not abandon me, Yahweh; my God, do not stay far away from me.
PSA 38:22 Come quickly to help me, Lord, my salvation.
PSA 39:1 I decided, "I will watch what I say so that I do not sin with my tongue. I will muzzle my mouth while in the presence of an evil man."
PSA 39:2 I kept silent; I kept back my words even from saying anything good, and my pain grew worse.
PSA 39:3 My heart became hot; when I thought about these things, it burned like a fire. Then finally I spoke.
PSA 39:4 "Yahweh, make me know when will be the end of my life and the extent of my days. Show me how transient I am.
PSA 39:5 See, you have made my days only the width of my hand, and my lifetime is like nothing before you. Surely every man is a single breath. Selah
PSA 39:6 Surely every man walks about like a shadow. Surely everyone hurries about to accumulate riches although they do not know who will receive them.
PSA 39:7 Now, Lord, for what am I waiting? You are my only hope.
PSA 39:8 Rescue me from my sins; do not make me the scorn of fools.
PSA 39:9 I am silent and cannot open my mouth, because it is you who has done it.
PSA 39:10 Stop wounding me; I am overwhelmed by the blow of your hand.
PSA 39:11 When you discipline people for iniquity, you consume the things they desire like a moth; surely all people are nothing but vapor. Selah
PSA 39:12 Hear my prayer, Yahweh, and give ear to my cry for help; do not be deaf to my tears! for I am like a foreigner with you, a sojourner like all my ancestors were.
PSA 39:13 Turn your gaze from me so that I may smile again before I die."
PSA 40:1 I waited patiently for Yahweh; he listened to me and heard my cry.
PSA 40:2 He brought me up out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and he set my feet on a rock and made my steps secure.
PSA 40:3 He has put a new song in my mouth, praise to our God. Many will see it and honor him and will trust in Yahweh.
PSA 40:4 Blessed is the man who makes Yahweh his trust and does not honor the proud or those who turn away from him to lies.
PSA 40:5 Many, Yahweh my God, are the wonderful deeds that you have done, and your thoughts which are about us cannot be numbered; if I declared and spoke of them, they would be more than could be counted.
PSA 40:6 You have no delight in sacrifice or offering, but you have opened my ears; you have not required burnt offerings or sin offerings.
PSA 40:7 Then said I, "See, I have come; it is written about me in the scroll of the document.
PSA 40:8 I delight to do your will, my God; your laws are in my heart."
PSA 40:9 I have proclaimed good news of your righteousness in the great assembly; Yahweh, you know that my lips have not kept back from doing this.
PSA 40:10 I have not concealed your righteousness in my heart; I have declared your faithfulness and your salvation; I have not concealed your covenant faithfulness or your trustworthiness from the great assembly.
PSA 40:11 Do not keep back your acts of mercy from me, Yahweh; let your covenant faithfulness and your trustworthiness always preserve me.
PSA 40:12 Troubles that cannot be numbered surround me; my iniquities have caught up with me so that I am no longer able to see anything; they are more than the hairs on my head, and my heart has failed me.
PSA 40:13 Be pleased, Yahweh, to rescue me; hurry to help me, Yahweh.
PSA 40:14 Let them be ashamed and completely disappointed who pursue my life to sweep it away. Let them be turned back and brought to dishonor, those who delight in hurting me.
PSA 40:15 Let them be appalled because of their shame, those who say to me, "Aha, aha!"
PSA 40:16 But may all those who seek you rejoice and be glad in you; let everyone who loves your salvation say continually, "May Yahweh be praised."
PSA 40:17 I am poor and needy; yet the Lord thinks about me. You are my help and you come to my rescue; do not delay, my God.
PSA 41:1 Blessed is he who is concerned for the weak; in the day of trouble, Yahweh will rescue him.
PSA 41:2 Yahweh will preserve him and keep him alive, and he will be blessed on the earth; Yahweh will not turn him over to the will of his enemies.
PSA 41:3 Yahweh will support him on the bed of suffering; you will make his bed of sickness into a bed of healing.
PSA 41:4 I said, "Yahweh, have mercy on me! Heal me, for I have sinned against you."
PSA 41:5 My enemies speak evil against me, saying, 'When will he die and his name perish?'
PSA 41:6 If my enemy comes to see me, he says worthless things; his heart gathers up wickedness for itself; when he goes away from me, he tells others about it.
PSA 41:7 All who hate me whisper together against me; against me they hope for my hurt.
PSA 41:8 They say, "An evil disease holds on tightly to him; now that he is lying down, he will rise up no more."
PSA 41:9 Indeed, even my own close friend, in whom I trusted, who ate my bread, has lifted up his heel against me.
PSA 41:10 But you, Yahweh, have mercy on me and raise me up so that I may pay them back.
PSA 41:11 By this I know that you delight in me, for my enemy does not triumph over me.
PSA 41:12 As for me, you support me in my integrity and will keep me before your face forever.
PSA 41:13 May Yahweh, the God of Israel be praised from everlasting to everlasting. Amen and Amen. \ms Book Two \mr (Psalms 42-72)
PSA 42:1 As the deer pants after streams of water, so I thirst for you, God.
PSA 42:2 I thirst for God, for the living God, when will I come and appear before God?
PSA 42:3 My tears have been my food day and night, while my enemies are always saying to me, "Where is your God?"
PSA 42:4 These things I call to mind as I pour out my soul: how I went with the throng and led them to the house of God with the voice of joy and praise, a multitude celebrating a festival.
PSA 42:5 Why are you bowed down, my soul? Why are you upset within me? Hope in God, for again I will praise him who is my salvation.
PSA 42:6 My God, my soul is bowed down within me, therefore I call you to mind from the land of the Jordan, from the three peaks of Mount Hermon, and from the hill of Mizar.
PSA 42:7 Deep calls to deep at the noise of your waterfalls; all your waves and your billows have gone over me.
PSA 42:8 Yet Yahweh will command his covenant faithfulness in the daytime; in the night his song will be with me, a prayer to the God of my life.
PSA 42:9 I will say to God, my rock, "Why have you forgotten me? Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?"
PSA 42:10 As with a sword in my bones, my adversaries rebuke me, while they always say to me, "Where is your God?"
PSA 42:11 Why are you bowed down, my soul? Why are you upset within me? Hope in God, for again I will praise him who is my salvation and my God.
PSA 43:1 Bring me justice, God, and plead my case against a nation that is not faithful. Deliver me from the deceitful and unjust man.
PSA 43:2 For you are the God of my strength. Why have you rejected me? Why do I go about in mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?
PSA 43:3 Oh, send out your light and your truth, let them lead me. Let them bring me to your holy hill and to your dwelling.
PSA 43:4 Then I will go to the altar of God, to God my exceeding joy. I will praise you with the harp, God, my God.
PSA 43:5 Why are you bowed down, my soul? Why are you upset within me? Hope in God, for again I will praise him who is my salvation and my God.
PSA 44:1 We have heard with our ears, God, our fathers have told us what work you did in their days, in the days of old.
PSA 44:2 You drove out the nations with your hand, but you planted our people; you afflicted the peoples, but you spread our people out in the land.
PSA 44:3 For they did not obtain the land for their possession by their own sword, neither did their own arm save them; but your right hand, your arm, and the light of your face, because you were favorable to them.
PSA 44:4 God, You are my King; command victory for Jacob.
PSA 44:5 Through you we will push down our adversaries; through your name we will tread them under, those who rise up against us.
PSA 44:6 For I will not trust in my bow, neither will my sword save me.
PSA 44:7 But you have saved us from our adversaries, and have put to shame those who hate us.
PSA 44:8 In God we have made our boast all the day long, and we will give thanks to your name forever. Selah
PSA 44:9 But now you have rejected us and brought us dishonor, and you do not go out with our armies.
PSA 44:10 You make us turn back from the adversary; and those who hate us take spoil for themselves.
PSA 44:11 You have made us like sheep to be slaughtered and have scattered us among the nations.
PSA 44:12 You sell your people for nothing; you have not increased your wealth by doing so.
PSA 44:13 You make us a rebuke to our neighbors, scoffed and mocked by those around us.
PSA 44:14 You make us an insult among the nations, a shaking of the head among the peoples.
PSA 44:15 All the day long my dishonor is before me, and the shame of my face has covered me
PSA 44:16 because of the voice of him who rebukes and insults, because of the enemy and the avenger.
PSA 44:17 All this has come on us; yet we have not forgotten you or dealt falsely with your covenant.
PSA 44:18 Our heart has not turned back; our steps have not gone from your way.
PSA 44:19 Yet you have severely broken us in the place of jackals and covered us with the shadow of death.
PSA 44:20 If we have forgotten the name of our God or spread out our hands to a strange god,
PSA 44:21 would not God search this out? For he knows the secrets of the heart.
PSA 44:22 Indeed, for your sake we are being killed all day long; we are considered to be sheep for the slaughter.
PSA 44:23 Awake, why do you sleep, Lord? Arise, do not reject us forever.
PSA 44:24 Why do you hide your face and forget our affliction and our oppression?
PSA 44:25 For we have sunk down into the dust; our bodies cling to the earth.
PSA 44:26 Rise up for our help and redeem us for the sake of your covenant faithfulness.
PSA 45:1 My heart overflows on a good subject; I will read aloud the words I have composed about the king; my tongue is the pen of a ready writer.
PSA 45:2 You are fairer than the children of mankind; grace is poured onto your lips; therefore we know that God has blessed you forever.
PSA 45:3 Gird your sword to your side, mighty one, in your glory and your majesty.
PSA 45:4 In your majesty ride on triumphantly because of trustworthiness, meekness, and righteousness; your right hand will teach you fearful things.
PSA 45:5 Your arrows are sharp; the peoples fall under you; your arrows are in the hearts of the king's enemies.
PSA 45:6 Your throne, God, is forever and ever; a scepter of justice is the scepter of your kingdom.
PSA 45:7 You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness; therefore God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of gladness more than your companions.
PSA 45:8 All your garments smell of myrrh, aloes, and cassia; out of ivory palaces stringed instruments have made you glad.
PSA 45:9 Kings' daughters are among your honorable women; at your right hand stands the queen clothed in gold of Ophir.
PSA 45:10 Listen, daughter, consider and incline your ear; forget your own people and your father's house.
PSA 45:11 In this way the king will desire your beauty; he is your master; revere him.
PSA 45:12 The daughter of Tyre will be there with a gift; the rich among the people will beg for your favor.
PSA 45:13 The royal daughter in the palace is all glorious; her clothing is worked with gold.
PSA 45:14 She will be led to the king in embroidered dress; the virgins, her companions who follow her, will be brought to you.
PSA 45:15 They will be led by gladness and rejoicing; they will enter into the king's palace.
PSA 45:16 In the place of your fathers will be your children, whom you will make princes in all the earth.
PSA 45:17 I will make your name to be remembered in all generations; therefore the peoples will give you thanks forever and ever.
PSA 46:1 God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble.
PSA 46:2 Therefore we will not fear, though the earth should change, though the mountains should be shaken into the heart of the seas,
PSA 46:3 though its waters roar and rage, and though the mountains tremble with their swelling. Selah
PSA 46:4 There is a river whose streams make the city of God happy, the holy place where the Most High dwells.
PSA 46:5 God is in the middle of her; she will not be moved; God will help her, and he will do so at the dawn of morning.
PSA 46:6 The nations raged and the kingdoms were shaken; he lifted up his voice, and the earth melted.
PSA 46:7 Yahweh of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our refuge. Selah
PSA 46:8 Come, behold the deeds of Yahweh, who has set up objects of horror on earth.
PSA 46:9 He makes wars cease to the ends of the earth; he breaks the bow and cuts the spear into pieces; he burns up the shields.
PSA 46:10 Be quiet and know that I am God; I will be exalted among the nations; I will be exalted on the earth.
PSA 46:11 Yahweh of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our refuge. Selah
PSA 47:1 Clap your hands, all you peoples; shout to God with the sound of celebration.
PSA 47:2 For Yahweh Most High is terrifying; he is a great King over all the earth.
PSA 47:3 He subdues peoples under us and nations under our feet.
PSA 47:4 He chooses our inheritance for us, the pride of Jacob whom he loved. Selah
PSA 47:5 God has gone up with a shout, Yahweh with the sound of a ram's horn.
PSA 47:6 Sing praises to God, sing praises; sing praises to our King, sing praises.
PSA 47:7 For God is the King over all the earth; sing praises with understanding.
PSA 47:8 God reigns over the nations; God sits on his holy throne.
PSA 47:9 The princes of the peoples have gathered together to the people of the God of Abraham; for the shields of the earth belong to God; he is greatly exalted.
PSA 48:1 Great is Yahweh and greatly to be praised, in the city of our God on his holy mountain.
PSA 48:2 Beautiful in elevation, the joy of the whole earth, is Mount Zion, on the sides of the north, the city of the great King.
PSA 48:3 God has made himself known in her palaces as a refuge.
PSA 48:4 For, see, the kings assembled themselves; they passed by together.
PSA 48:5 They saw it, then they were amazed; they were dismayed, and they hurried away.
PSA 48:6 Trembling took hold of them there, pain as when a woman is in labor.
PSA 48:7 With the east wind you break the ships of Tarshish.
PSA 48:8 As we have heard, so have we seen in the city of Yahweh of hosts, in the city of our God; God will establish it forever. Selah
PSA 48:9 We have thought about your covenant faithfulness, God, in the middle of your temple.
PSA 48:10 As your name is, God, so is your praise to the ends of the earth; your right hand is full of righteousness.
PSA 48:11 Let Mount Zion be glad, let the daughters of Judah rejoice because of your righteous decrees.
PSA 48:12 Walk around Mount Zion, go round about her; count her towers,
PSA 48:13 notice well her walls, and look at her palaces so that you may tell it to the next generation.
PSA 48:14 For this God is our God forever and ever; he will be our guide to death.
PSA 49:1 Hear this, all you peoples; give ear, all you inhabitants of the world,
PSA 49:2 both low and high, rich and poor together.
PSA 49:3 My mouth will speak wisdom and the meditation of my heart will be of understanding.
PSA 49:4 I will incline my ear to a parable; I will begin my parable with the harp.
PSA 49:5 Why should I fear the days of evil, when iniquity surrounds me at my heels?
PSA 49:6 Why should I fear those who trust in their wealth and boast about the amount of their riches?
PSA 49:7 It is certain that no one can redeem his brother or give God a ransom for him,
PSA 49:8 For the redemption of one's life is costly, and no one can pay what we owe.
PSA 49:9 No one can live forever so that he would not see the pit.
PSA 49:10 For he will see decay. Wise men die; the fool and the brute alike perish and leave their wealth to others.
PSA 49:11 Their inner thought is that their families will continue forever, and the places where they live, to all generations; they call their lands after their own names.
PSA 49:12 But man, having wealth, does not remain alive; he is like the wild animals that perish.
PSA 49:13 This, their way, is their folly; yet after them, men approve of their sayings. Selah
PSA 49:14 Like sheep they are appointed for Sheol, and death will be their shepherd. The upright will rule over them in the morning, and their bodies will be consumed in Sheol, with no place for them to live.
PSA 49:15 But God will redeem my life from the power of Sheol; he will receive me. Selah
PSA 49:16 Do not be afraid when one becomes rich, and the glory of his house increases.
PSA 49:17 For when he dies he will take nothing away; his glory will not go down after him.
PSA 49:18 He blessed his soul while he lived— and men praise you when you live for yourself—
PSA 49:19 he will go to the generation of his fathers and they will never see the light again.
PSA 49:20 One who has wealth but no understanding is like the animals that perish.
PSA 50:1 The Mighty One, God, Yahweh, has spoken and called the earth from the rising of the sun to its setting.
PSA 50:2 Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God has shone.
PSA 50:3 Our God comes and does not stay silent; a fire devours before him, and it is very stormy around him.
PSA 50:4 He calls to the heavens above and to the earth so that he may judge his people:
PSA 50:5 "Gather my faithful ones together to me, those who have made a covenant with me by sacrifice."
PSA 50:6 The heavens will declare his righteousness, for God himself is judge. Selah
PSA 50:7 "Hear, my people, and I will speak, Israel, and I will testify against you. I am God, your God.
PSA 50:8 I will not reprove you for your sacrifices; your burnt offerings are always before me.
PSA 50:9 I will take no bull out of your house, or male goats out of your folds.
PSA 50:10 For every animal of the forest is mine, and the cattle on a thousand hills.
PSA 50:11 I know all the birds of the mountains, and the wild beasts of the field are mine.
PSA 50:12 If I were hungry, I would not tell you; for the world is mine, and everything in it.
PSA 50:13 Will I eat the flesh of bulls or drink the blood of goats?
PSA 50:14 Offer to God the sacrifice of thanksgiving, and pay your vows to the Most High.
PSA 50:15 Call on me in the day of trouble; I will rescue you, and you will glorify me."
PSA 50:16 But to the wicked God says, "What have you to do with declaring my statutes, that you have taken my covenant in your mouth,
PSA 50:17 since you hate instruction and throw my words away?
PSA 50:18 When you see a thief, you agree with him; you participate with those who commit adultery.
PSA 50:19 You give your mouth to evil, and your tongue expresses deceit.
PSA 50:20 You sit and speak against your brother; you slander your own mother's son.
PSA 50:21 You have done these things, but I have kept silent, so you thought that I was someone just like yourself. But I will reprove you and bring up, right before your eyes, all the things you have done.
PSA 50:22 Give this careful consideration, you who forget God, otherwise I will tear you to pieces, and there will be no one to come to help you!
PSA 50:23 The one who offers a sacrifice of thanksgiving praises me, and to anyone who plans his path in the right way I will show God's salvation."
PSA 51:1 Have mercy on me, God, because of your covenant faithfulness; for the sake of the multitude of your merciful actions, blot out my transgressions.
PSA 51:2 Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity and cleanse me from my sin.
PSA 51:3 For I know my transgressions, and my sin is always before me.
PSA 51:4 Against you, you only, I have sinned and done what is evil in your sight; you are justified when you speak; you are blameless when you judge.
PSA 51:5 See, I was born in iniquity; as soon as my mother conceived me, I was in sin.
PSA 51:6 See, you desire trustworthiness in my inner self; and you teach me wisdom in the secret place within.
PSA 51:7 Purify me with hyssop, and I will be clean; wash me, and I will be whiter than snow.
PSA 51:8 Make me hear joy and gladness so that the bones that you have broken may rejoice.
PSA 51:9 Hide your face from my sins and blot out all my iniquities.
PSA 51:10 Create in me a clean heart, God, and renew a right spirit within me.
PSA 51:11 Do not drive me away from your presence, and do not take your holy Spirit from me.
PSA 51:12 Restore to me the joy of your salvation, and sustain me with a willing spirit.
PSA 51:13 Then will I teach transgressors your ways, and sinners will be converted to you.
PSA 51:14 Forgive me for shedding blood, God of my salvation, and I will shout for the joy of your righteousness.
PSA 51:15 Lord, open my lips, and my mouth will express your praise.
PSA 51:16 For you do not delight in sacrifice, or I would give it; you have no pleasure in burnt offerings.
PSA 51:17 The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit. You, God, will not despise a broken and a contrite heart.
PSA 51:18 Do good in your good pleasure to Zion; rebuild the walls of Jerusalem.
PSA 51:19 Then will you delight in the sacrifices of righteousness, in burnt offerings and whole burnt offerings; then our people will offer bulls on your altar.
PSA 52:1 Why are you proud of making trouble, you mighty man? The covenant faithfulness of God comes every day.
PSA 52:2 Your tongue plans destruction like a sharp razor, working deceitfully.
PSA 52:3 You love evil more than good and lying rather than speaking righteousness. Selah
PSA 52:4 You love all words that devour others, you deceitful tongue.
PSA 52:5 God will surely destroy you forever; he will take you up and pluck you out of your tent and root you out of the land of the living. Selah
PSA 52:6 The righteous will also see it and fear; they will laugh at him and say,
PSA 52:7 "See, this is a man who did not make God his refuge, but he trusted in the abundance of his wealth, and he was strong when he destroyed others."
PSA 52:8 But as for me, I am like a green olive tree in the house of God; I will trust in the covenant faithfulness of God forever and ever.
PSA 52:9 I will give you thanks forever for what you have done. I will wait for your name, because it is good, in the presence of your faithful ones.
PSA 53:1 A fool says in his heart, "There is no God." They are corrupt and have done abominable iniquity; there is no one who does good.
PSA 53:2 God looks down from heaven on the children of mankind to see if there are any who understand, who seek after him.
PSA 53:3 They have all turned away. Together they have become corrupt. There is not one who does good, not even one.
PSA 53:4 Do those who behave wickedly have no understanding— those who devour my people as if they were eating bread and they do not call on God?
PSA 53:5 There they are, in great fear, where there was nothing to cause them to be afraid; for God will scatter the bones of those who encamp against you; you put them to shame, for God has rejected them.
PSA 53:6 Oh, that the salvation of Israel would come from Zion! When God brings back his people from the captivity, then Jacob will rejoice and Israel will be glad!
PSA 54:1 Save me, God, by your name, and judge me in your might.
PSA 54:2 Hear my prayer, God; give ear to the words of my mouth.
PSA 54:3 For strangers have risen up against me, and ruthless men have sought after my life; they have not set God before them. Selah
PSA 54:4 See, God is my helper; the Lord is the one who upholds me.
PSA 54:5 He will repay my enemies with evil; in your faithfulness, destroy them!
PSA 54:6 I will sacrifice to you with a freewill offering; I will give thanks to your name, Yahweh, for it is good.
PSA 54:7 For he has rescued me from every trouble; my eye has looked in triumph on my enemies.
PSA 55:1 Give ear to my prayer, God; and do not hide yourself from my plea.
PSA 55:2 Pay attention to me and answer me; I am restless in my troubles
PSA 55:3 because of the voice of my enemies, because of the oppression of the wicked; for they bring trouble on me, they are hostile to me with wickedness and anger.
PSA 55:4 My heart trembles within me, and the terrors of death have fallen on me.
PSA 55:5 Fear and trembling have come on me, and horror has overwhelmed me.
PSA 55:6 I said, "Oh, if only I had wings like a dove! Then would I fly away and be at rest.
PSA 55:7 See, then I would wander far away; I would stay in the wilderness. Selah
PSA 55:8 I would hurry to a shelter from the stormy wind and tempest."
PSA 55:9 Destroy, Lord, and divide their tongue; for I see violence and strife in the city.
PSA 55:10 Day and night they go about on its walls; wickedness and trouble are in the middle of it.
PSA 55:11 Wickedness is in the middle of it; oppression and deceit do not leave its streets.
PSA 55:12 For it was not an enemy who rebuked me, then I could have borne it; neither was it he who hated me who raised himself up against me, then I would have hidden myself from him.
PSA 55:13 But it was you, a man equal to myself, my companion and my close friend.
PSA 55:14 We had sweet fellowship together; we walked in the house of God with the throng.
PSA 55:15 Let death come deceitfully on them; let them go down alive to Sheol, for wickedness is where they live, right among them.
PSA 55:16 As for me, I will call on God, and Yahweh will save me.
PSA 55:17 In the evening, morning, and at noonday I complain and moan; he will hear my voice.
PSA 55:18 He will safely rescue my life from the battle that was against me, for those who fought against me were many.
PSA 55:19 God, the one who rules from eternity, will hear them and humiliate them. Selah They never change, and they do not fear God.
PSA 55:20 My friend has raised his hands against those who were at peace with him; he has not respected the covenant that he had.
PSA 55:21 His mouth was smooth as butter, but his heart was hostile; his words were softer than oil, yet they were actually drawn swords.
PSA 55:22 Place your burdens on Yahweh, and he will sustain you; he will never allow a righteous person to totter.
PSA 55:23 But you, God, will bring the wicked down into the pit of destruction; men of bloodshed and deceit will not live even half as long as others, but I will trust in you.
PSA 56:1 Be merciful to me, God, for men are attacking me! All the day long those who fight me oppress me.
PSA 56:2 My enemies trample me all day long; for there are many who arrogantly fight against me.
PSA 56:3 When I am afraid, I will put my trust in you.
PSA 56:4 In God, whose word I praise— in God I have put my trust; I will not be afraid; what can mere man do to me?
PSA 56:5 All the day long they twist my words; all their thoughts are against me for evil.
PSA 56:6 They gather themselves together, they hide themselves, and they mark my steps, just as they have waited for my life.
PSA 56:7 Do not let them escape doing iniquity. Bring down the peoples in your anger, God.
PSA 56:8 You number my wanderings and put my tears into your bottle; are they not in your book?
PSA 56:9 Then my enemies will turn back on the day that I call to you; this I know, that God is for me.
PSA 56:10 In God—whose word I praise, in Yahweh—whose word I praise,
PSA 56:11 in God I trust, I will not be afraid. What can anyone do to me?
PSA 56:12 The duty to fulfill my vows to you is on me, God; I will give thank offerings to you.
PSA 56:13 For you have rescued my life from death; you have kept my feet from stumbling, so that I may walk before God in the light of the living.
PSA 57:1 Be merciful to me, God, be merciful to me, for I take refuge in you until these troubles are over. I stay under your wings for protection until this destruction is over.
PSA 57:2 I will cry to God Most High, to God, who does all things for me.
PSA 57:3 He will send help from heaven and save me, he rebukes those who hotly pursue me. Selah God will send me his steadfast love and his faithfulness.
PSA 57:4 My life is among lions; I am among those who are ready to devour me. I am among people whose teeth are spears and arrows, and whose tongues are sharp swords.
PSA 57:5 Be exalted, God, above the heavens; let your glory be above all the earth.
PSA 57:6 They spread out a net for my feet; I was bowed down. They dug a pit in front of me. They themselves have fallen into the middle of it! Selah
PSA 57:7 My heart is fixed, God, my heart is fixed; I will sing, yes, I will sing praises.
PSA 57:8 Wake up, my glory! Wake up, lute and harp! I will wake up the dawn!
PSA 57:9 I will give thanks to you, Lord, among the peoples; I will sing praises to you among the nations.
PSA 57:10 For great is your unfailing love, reaching to the heavens; and your faithfulness to the clouds.
PSA 57:11 Be exalted, God, above the heavens; may your glory be exalted over all the earth.
PSA 58:1 Do you rulers speak righteousness? Do you judge uprightly, you people?
PSA 58:2 No, you commit wickedness in your heart; you distribute violence throughout the land with your hands.
PSA 58:3 The wicked go astray even when they are in the womb; they go astray from birth, speaking lies.
PSA 58:4 Their poison is like a snake's poison; they are like a deaf asp that stops up its ears,
PSA 58:5 that pays no attention to the voice of charmers, no matter how skillful they are.
PSA 58:6 Shatter their teeth in their mouths, God; break out the great teeth of the young lions, Yahweh.
PSA 58:7 Let them melt away as water that runs off; when they shoot their arrows, let them be as though they had no points.
PSA 58:8 Let them be like a snail that melts and passes away, like the untimely born child of a woman that never sees the sunlight.
PSA 58:9 Before your pots can feel the thorn's burning heat, he will take them away with a whirlwind, the green thorns and the burning thorns alike.
PSA 58:10 The righteous will rejoice when he sees God's vengeance; he will wash his feet in the blood of the wicked,
PSA 58:11 so that men will say, "Truly, there is a reward for the righteous person; truly there is a God who judges the earth."
PSA 59:1 Rescue me from my enemies, my God; set me on high away from those who rise up against me.
PSA 59:2 Keep me safe from those who behave wickedly, and save me from men of bloodshed.
PSA 59:3 For, see, they wait in ambush to take my life. The powerful men gather themselves together against me, but not because of my transgression or my sin, Yahweh.
PSA 59:4 For no guilt of mine they prepare to run at me; awake and help me and see.
PSA 59:5 You, Yahweh God of hosts, the God of Israel, arise and punish all the nations; do not be merciful to any wicked transgressors. Selah
PSA 59:6 They return at evening, they howl like dogs and go around the city.
PSA 59:7 See, they belch out with their mouths; swords are in their lips, for they say, "Who hears us?"
PSA 59:8 But you, Yahweh, laugh at them; you mock at all the nations.
PSA 59:9 God, my strength, I will pay attention to you; you are my high tower.
PSA 59:10 My God will meet me with his covenant faithfulness; God will let me see my desire on my enemies.
PSA 59:11 Do not kill them, or my people will forget. Scatter them by your power and make them fall, Lord our shield.
PSA 59:12 For the sins of their mouths and the words of their lips, let them be captured in their pride, and for the curses and lies that they express.
PSA 59:13 Consume them in wrath, consume them so that they will be no more; let them know that God rules in Jacob and to the ends of the earth. Selah
PSA 59:14 At evening they return, howling like dogs going around the city.
PSA 59:15 They wander about looking for food and they growl like a dog if they are not satisfied.
PSA 59:16 But I will sing about your strength, and in the morning I will praise your steadfast love! For you have been my high tower and a refuge in the day of my distress.
PSA 59:17 To you, my strength, I will sing praises; for God is my high tower, the God of covenant faithfulness.
PSA 60:1 God, you have rejected us; you have broken through our defenses; you have been angry; restore us again.
PSA 60:2 You have made the land tremble; you have torn it apart; heal its cracks, for it is shaking.
PSA 60:3 You have made your people see difficult things; you have made us drink the wine of staggering.
PSA 60:4 For those who honor you, you have set up a banner to be displayed against those who carry the bow. Selah
PSA 60:5 So that those you love may be rescued, rescue us with your right hand and answer me.
PSA 60:6 God has spoken in his holiness, "I will rejoice; I will divide Shechem and apportion out the Valley of Sukkoth.
PSA 60:7 Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine; Ephraim also is my helmet; Judah is my scepter.
PSA 60:8 Moab is my washbasin; over Edom I will throw my sandal; I will shout in triumph because of Philistia."
PSA 60:9 Who will bring me into the strong city? Who will lead me to Edom?
PSA 60:10 But you, God, have you not rejected us? You do not go into battle with our army.
PSA 60:11 Give us help against the enemy, for man's help is futile.
PSA 60:12 We will triumph with God's help; he will trample down our enemies.
PSA 61:1 Hear my cry, God; attend to my prayer.
PSA 61:2 From the ends of the earth will I call to you when my heart is faint; lead me to the rock that is higher than I.
PSA 61:3 For you have been a refuge for me, a strong tower from the enemy.
PSA 61:4 Let me live in your tabernacle forever! Let me take refuge under the shelter of your wings. Selah
PSA 61:5 For you, God, have heard my vows, you have given me the inheritance of those who honor your name.
PSA 61:6 You will prolong the king's life; his years will be like many generations.
PSA 61:7 He will reign before God forever; appoint your steadfast love and faithfulness to protect him.
PSA 61:8 I will sing praise to your name forever so that I may perform my vows every day. 2
PSA 62:1 I wait in silence for God alone; my salvation comes from him.
PSA 62:2 He alone is my rock and my salvation; he is my high tower; I will not be greatly moved.
PSA 62:3 How long, all of you, will you attack a man, that you may murder him, like a leaning wall or a shaky fence?
PSA 62:4 They consult with him only to bring him down from his honorable position; they love to tell lies; they bless him with their mouths, but in their hearts they curse him. Selah
PSA 62:5 I wait in silence for God alone; for my hope is set on him.
PSA 62:6 He alone is my rock and my salvation; he is my high tower; I will not be moved.
PSA 62:7 With God is my salvation and my glory; the rock of my strength and my refuge are in God.
PSA 62:8 Trust in him at all times, you people; pour out your heart before him; God is a refuge for us. Selah
PSA 62:9 Surely men of low standing are vanity, and men of high standing are a lie; they will weigh lightly in the scales; weighed together, they are lighter than nothing.
PSA 62:10 Do not trust in oppression or robbery; and do not hope uselessly in riches, for they will bear no fruit; do not fix your heart on them.
PSA 62:11 God has spoken once, twice have I heard this: power belongs to God.
PSA 62:12 Also to you, Lord, belongs covenant faithfulness, for you pay back every person for what he has done.
PSA 63:1 God, you are my God! I earnestly search for you, my soul thirsts for you, and my flesh longs for you, in a dry and weary land where there is no water.
PSA 63:2 So I have looked on you in the sanctuary, to see your power and your glory.
PSA 63:3 Because your covenant faithfulness is better than life, my lips will praise you.
PSA 63:4 So I will bless you while I live; I will lift up my hands in your name.
PSA 63:5 It will be as if I ate a meal of marrow and fatness; with joyful lips my mouth will praise you,
PSA 63:6 when I think about you on my bed and meditate on you in the night watches.
PSA 63:7 For you have been my help, and in the shadow of your wings I rejoice.
PSA 63:8 I cling to you; your right hand supports me.
PSA 63:9 But those who seek to destroy my life will go down into the lowest parts of the earth;
PSA 63:10 they will be given over to those whose hands use the sword, and they will become food for the jackals.
PSA 63:11 But the king will rejoice in God; everyone who swears by him will be proud of him, but the mouth of those who speak lies will be stopped up.
PSA 64:1 Hear my voice, God, listen to my complaint; preserve my life from fear of my enemies.
PSA 64:2 Hide me from the secret plotting of evildoers, from the commotion of those who behave wickedly.
PSA 64:3 They have sharpened their tongues like swords; they have aimed their arrows, bitter words,
PSA 64:4 so that they may shoot from secret places at someone who is innocent; suddenly they shoot at him and fear nothing.
PSA 64:5 They encourage themselves in an evil plan; they consult privately together in order to set traps; they say, "Who will see us?"
PSA 64:6 They invent injustices; "We have finished," they say, "a careful plan." The inner thoughts and hearts of man are deep.
PSA 64:7 But God will shoot them; suddenly they will be wounded with his arrows.
PSA 64:8 They will be made to stumble, since their own tongues are against them; all who see them will wag their heads.
PSA 64:9 All people will fear and will declare God's deeds. They will wisely think about what he has done.
PSA 64:10 The righteous will be glad about Yahweh and will take refuge in him; all the upright in heart will take pride in him.
PSA 65:1 For you, God in Zion, our praise waits; our vows will be carried out to you.
PSA 65:2 You who hear prayer, to you all flesh will come.
PSA 65:3 Iniquities prevail against us; as for our transgressions, you will forgive them.
PSA 65:4 Blessed is the man whom you choose to bring near to you so that he may live in your courts. We will be satisfied with the goodness of your house, your holy temple.
PSA 65:5 In righteousness you will answer us by doing awesome deeds, God of our salvation; you who are hope of all the ends of the earth and of those who are far across the sea.
PSA 65:6 For it is you who made the mountains firm, you who are girded with strength.
PSA 65:7 It is you who quiet the roaring of the seas, the roaring of their waves, and the commotion of the peoples.
PSA 65:8 Those who live in the uttermost parts of the earth are afraid of the evidence of your deeds; you make the east and the west rejoice.
PSA 65:9 You come to help the earth; you water it; you greatly enrich it; the river of God is full of water; you provide mankind grain when you have prepared the earth.
PSA 65:10 You water its furrows abundantly; you settle down the furrows' ridges; you make them soft with rain showers; you bless the sprouts between them.
PSA 65:11 You crown the year with your goodness, and your wagon tracks overflow with abundance.
PSA 65:12 The pastures in the wilderness drip with dew, and the hills are girded with joy.
PSA 65:13 The pastures are clothed with flocks; the valleys also are covered over with grain; they shout for joy, and they sing.
PSA 66:1 Shout out loud to God, all the earth;
PSA 66:2 Sing out the glory of his name; make his praise glorious.
PSA 66:3 Say to God, "How terrifying are your deeds! By the greatness of your power your enemies will submit to you.
PSA 66:4 All the earth will worship you and will sing to you; they will sing praises to your name." Selah
PSA 66:5 Come and see the works of God; he is fearsome in his deeds toward the sons of mankind.
PSA 66:6 He turned the sea into dry land; they went through the river on foot; there we rejoiced in him.
PSA 66:7 He rules forever by his might; his eyes observe the nations; let not the rebellious exalt themselves. Selah
PSA 66:8 Give blessing to God, you people, let the sound of his praise be heard.
PSA 66:9 He keeps us among the living, and he does not permit our feet to slip.
PSA 66:10 For you, God, have tested us; you have tested us as silver is tested.
PSA 66:11 You brought us into a net; you laid a heavy burden on our backs.
PSA 66:12 You made people ride over our heads; we went through fire and water, but you brought us out into a spacious place.
PSA 66:13 I will come into your house with burnt offerings; I will pay you my vows
PSA 66:14 which my lips promised and my mouth spoke when I was in distress.
PSA 66:15 I will offer to you burnt offerings of fat animals with the sweet aroma of rams; I will offer bulls and goats. Selah
PSA 66:16 Come and listen, all you who fear God, and I will declare what he has done for my soul.
PSA 66:17 I cried to him with my mouth, and he was praised with my tongue.
PSA 66:18 If I had seen wickedness within my heart, the Lord would not have listened to me.
PSA 66:19 But God has truly heard; he has paid attention to the voice of my prayer.
PSA 66:20 Blessed be God, who has not turned away my prayer or his covenant faithfulness from me.
PSA 67:1 May God be merciful to us and bless us and cause his face to shine on us Selah
PSA 67:2 so that your ways may be known on earth, your salvation among all nations.
PSA 67:3 Let the peoples praise you, God; let all the peoples praise you.
PSA 67:4 Oh, let the nations be glad and sing for joy, for you will judge the peoples with justice and govern the nations on earth. Selah
PSA 67:5 Let the peoples praise you, God; let all the peoples praise you.
PSA 67:6 The earth has yielded its produce and God, our God, has blessed us.
PSA 67:7 God has blessed us, and all the ends of the earth honor him.
PSA 68:1 Let God arise; let his enemies be scattered; let those also who hate him flee before him.
PSA 68:2 As smoke is driven away, so drive them away; as wax melts before the fire, so let the wicked perish in the presence of God.
PSA 68:3 But let the righteous be glad; let them rejoice before God; may they rejoice with gladness.
PSA 68:4 Sing to God! Sing praises to his name! Praise the one who rides through the plains of the Jordan River valley! Yah is his name! Rejoice before him!\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f*
PSA 68:5 A Father of the fatherless, a judge of the widows, is God in the holy place where he lives.
PSA 68:6 God puts the lonely into families; he brings out the prisoners with singing; but the rebellious live in a parched land.
PSA 68:7 God, when you went out before your people, when you marched through the wilderness, Selah
PSA 68:8 the earth trembled; the heavens also dropped rain in God's presence, in the presence of God when he came to Sinai, in the presence of God, the God of Israel.
PSA 68:9 You, God, sent a plentiful rain; you strengthened your inheritance when it was weary.
PSA 68:10 Your people lived in it; You, God, gave from your goodness to the poor.
PSA 68:11 The Lord gave the word, and those who announced them were a great army.
PSA 68:12 Kings of armies flee, they flee, and the women waiting at home divide the plunder:
PSA 68:13 the wings of a dove are covered with silver, its feathers with shining gold. Yet some of you people lie down among the sheepfolds.
PSA 68:14 The Almighty scattered kings there, it was as when it snowed on Mount Zalmon.
PSA 68:15 A mighty mountain is the hill country of Bashan; a high mountain is the hill country of Bashan.
PSA 68:16 Why do you look in envy, you high hill country, at the mountain which God desires for the place he will live? Indeed, Yahweh will live in it forever.
PSA 68:17 The chariots of God are twenty thousand, thousands upon thousands; the Lord is among them in the holy place, as at Sinai.
PSA 68:18 You have ascended on high; you have led away captives; you have received gifts from among men, even from the rebellious, so that Yah, God, might live there.\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f*
PSA 68:19 Blessed be the Lord, who daily bears our burdens, the God who is our salvation. Selah
PSA 68:20 Our God is a God who saves; Yahweh the Lord is the one who is able to rescue us from death.
PSA 68:21 But God will strike through the heads of his enemies, through the hairy scalps of those who walk in offenses against him.
PSA 68:22 The Lord said, "I will bring my enemies back from Bashan; I will bring them back from the depths of the sea
PSA 68:23 so that you may crush your enemies, dipping your foot in blood, and so that the tongues of your dogs may have their share from your enemies."
PSA 68:24 They have seen your processions, God, the processions of my God, my King, into the holy place.
PSA 68:25 The singers went first, the minstrels followed after, and in the middle were the unmarried girls playing tambourines.
PSA 68:26 Bless God in the assemblies; praise Yahweh, you who are from the fountain\f + \ft The copies of the ancient Hebrew text can be read either as \fqa from the fountain \fqa* or \fqa from the assembly\fqa*. \f* of Israel.
PSA 68:27 There is Benjamin, the smallest tribe, ruling them, then the leaders of Judah and their multitudes, the leaders of Zebulun and the leaders of Naphtali.
PSA 68:28 Your God, Israel, has decreed your strength; reveal to us your power, God, as you have revealed it in times past.
PSA 68:29 Reveal your power to us from your temple at Jerusalem, where kings bring tribute to you.
PSA 68:30 Rebuke the wild beasts in the reeds, against the peoples, that multitude of bulls and calves. Humiliate them and make them bring you silver; scatter the peoples who love to wage war.
PSA 68:31 Princes will come out of Egypt; Cush will hurry to reach out with her hands to God.
PSA 68:32 Sing to God, you kingdoms of the earth. Selah Sing praises to the Lord,
PSA 68:33 to him who rides on the heaven of heavens, which exist from ancient times; see, he lifts up his voice with power.
PSA 68:34 Ascribe strength to God; his majesty is over Israel, and his strength is in the skies.
PSA 68:35 God, you are fearsome in your holy place; the God of Israel—he gives strength and power to his people. Blessed be God.
PSA 69:1 Save me, God; for the waters have put my life in danger.
PSA 69:2 I sink in deep mire, where there is no place to stand; I have come into deep waters, where the floods flow over me.
PSA 69:3 I am weary with my crying; my throat is dry; my eyes fail while I wait for my God.
PSA 69:4 Those who hate me without a cause are more than the hairs on my head; those who would cut me off, being my enemies for wrong reasons, are mighty; what I did not steal, I have to give back.
PSA 69:5 God, you know my foolishness, and my sins are not hidden from you.
PSA 69:6 Let not those who hope in you be put to shame because of me, Lord Yahweh of hosts; let not those who seek you be brought to dishonor because of me, God of Israel.
PSA 69:7 For your sake I have borne rebuke; shame has covered my face.
PSA 69:8 I have become a stranger to my brothers, an alien to my mother's children.
PSA 69:9 For the zeal of your house has eaten me up, and the rebukes of those who rebuke you have fallen on me.
PSA 69:10 When I weep and fast, I must endure scorn.
PSA 69:11 When I put on sackcloth, I became a byword to them.
PSA 69:12 Those who sit in the city gate talk about me; I am a song of drunkards.
PSA 69:13 But as for me, my prayer is to you, Yahweh, at a time that you will accept; answer me in the trustworthiness of your salvation.
PSA 69:14 Pull me out of the mire, and do not let me sink; let me be taken away from those who hate me and rescued out of the deep waters.
PSA 69:15 Do not let the floods of water overwhelm me, neither let the deep swallow me up. Do not let the pit shut its mouth on me.
PSA 69:16 Answer me, Yahweh, for your covenant faithfulness is good; because your mercies for me are many, turn to me.
PSA 69:17 Do not hide your face from your servant, for I am in distress; answer me quickly.
PSA 69:18 Come to me and redeem me. Because of my enemies, ransom me.
PSA 69:19 You know my rebuke, my shame, and my dishonor; my adversaries are all before you.
PSA 69:20 Rebuke has broken my heart; I am full of heaviness; I looked for someone to take pity, but there was none; I looked for comforters, but I found none.
PSA 69:21 They gave me poison for my food; in my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink.
PSA 69:22 Let their table before them become a snare; when they think they are in safety, let it become a trap.
PSA 69:23 Let their eyes be darkened so that they cannot see; and always make their loins shake.
PSA 69:24 Pour out your indignation on them, and let your raging anger overtake them.
PSA 69:25 Let their encampment be a desolation; let no one live in their tents.
PSA 69:26 For they persecuted the one you struck down. They repeated the account of the pain of those you have wounded.
PSA 69:27 Accuse them of having committed iniquity after iniquity; do not let them come into your righteous victory.
PSA 69:28 Let them be blotted out of the Book of Life and not be written down along with the righteous.
PSA 69:29 But I am poor and in pain; let your salvation, God, set me up on high.
PSA 69:30 I will praise the name of God with a song and will exalt him with thanksgiving.
PSA 69:31 That will please Yahweh better than an ox or a bull that has horns and hooves.
PSA 69:32 The meek have seen it and are glad; you who seek after God, let your hearts live.
PSA 69:33 For Yahweh hears the needy and does not despise his prisoners.
PSA 69:34 Let heaven and earth praise him, the seas and everything that moves in them.
PSA 69:35 For God will save Zion and will rebuild the cities of Judah; the people will live there and have it as a possession.
PSA 69:36 His servants' descendants will inherit it; and those who love his name will live there.
PSA 70:1 Save me, God! Yahweh, come quickly and help me.
PSA 70:2 Let those who try to take my life be ashamed and humiliated; let them be turned back and brought to dishonor, those who take pleasure in my pain.
PSA 70:3 Let them be turned back because of their shame, those who say, "Aha, aha."
PSA 70:4 Let all those who seek you rejoice and be glad in you; let those who love your salvation always say, "May God be praised."
PSA 70:5 But I am poor and needy; hurry to me, God; you are my help and you rescue me. Yahweh, do not delay.
PSA 71:1 In you, Yahweh, I take refuge; let me never be put to shame.
PSA 71:2 Rescue me and make me safe in your righteousness; turn your ear to me and save me.
PSA 71:3 Be to me a rock for refuge where I may always go; you have given a command to save me, for you are my rock and my fortress.
PSA 71:4 Rescue me, my God, out of the hand of the wicked, out of the hand of the unrighteous and ruthless.
PSA 71:5 For you are my hope, Lord Yahweh. I have trusted in you ever since I was a child.
PSA 71:6 By you I have been supported from the womb; you are he who took me out of my mother's belly; my praise will be always about you.
PSA 71:7 I am a marvel to many people; you are my strong refuge.
PSA 71:8 My mouth will be filled with your praise, all the day with your honor.
PSA 71:9 Do not throw me away in my time of old age; do not abandon me when my strength fails.
PSA 71:10 For my enemies are talking about me; those who watch for my life are plotting together.
PSA 71:11 They say, "God has abandoned him; pursue and take him, for there is no one to save him."
PSA 71:12 God, do not be far from me; my God, hurry to help me.
PSA 71:13 Let them be put to shame and destroyed, those who are hostile to my life; let them be covered with rebuke and dishonor, those who seek my hurt.
PSA 71:14 But I will always hope in you and will praise you more and more.
PSA 71:15 My mouth will tell about your righteousness and your salvation all the day, although I cannot understand it.
PSA 71:16 I will come with the mighty acts of the Lord Yahweh; I will make mention of your righteousness, yours alone.
PSA 71:17 God, you have taught me from my youth; even now I declare your wonderful deeds.
PSA 71:18 Indeed, even when I am old and gray-headed, God, do not abandon me, as I have been declaring your strength to the next generation, your power to everyone who is to come.
PSA 71:19 Your righteousness also, God, is very high; you who have done great things, God, who is like you?
PSA 71:20 You who made me see many troubles will revive us again and will bring us up again from the depths of the earth.
PSA 71:21 May you increase my honor; turn again and comfort me.
PSA 71:22 I will also give thanks to you with the harp for your trustworthiness, my God; to you I will sing praises with the harp, Holy One of Israel.
PSA 71:23 My lips will shout for joy when I sing praises to you— even my soul, which you have redeemed.
PSA 71:24 My tongue will also talk about your righteousness all day long; for they have been put to shame and are confused, those who sought my hurt.
PSA 72:1 Give the king your righteous decrees, God, your righteousness to the king's son.
PSA 72:2 May he judge your people with righteousness and your poor with justice.
PSA 72:3 May the mountains produce peace for the people; may the hills produce righteousness.
PSA 72:4 May he judge the poor of the people; may he save the children of the needy and break in pieces the oppressor.
PSA 72:5 May they honor you while the sun endures, and as long as the moon lasts throughout all generations.
PSA 72:6 May he come down like rain on the mown grass, like showers that water the earth.
PSA 72:7 May the righteous flourish in his days, and may there be an abundance of peace till the moon is no more.
PSA 72:8 May he have dominion from sea to sea, and from the River to the ends of the earth.
PSA 72:9 May those who live in the wilderness bow down before him; may his enemies lick the dust.
PSA 72:10 May the kings of Tarshish and of the islands render tribute; may the kings of Sheba and Seba offer gifts.
PSA 72:11 Indeed, may all kings fall down before him; may all nations serve him.
PSA 72:12 For he helps the needy person who cries out and the poor person who has no other helper.
PSA 72:13 He has pity on the poor and needy, and he saves the lives of needy people.
PSA 72:14 He redeems their lives from oppression and violence, and their blood is precious in his sight.
PSA 72:15 May he live! May the gold of Sheba be given to him. May people always pray for him; may God bless him all day long.
PSA 72:16 May there be abundance of grain in the land; on the mountaintops may their crops wave. May the fruit of it be like Lebanon; may the people flourish in the cities like the grass of the field.
PSA 72:17 May his name endure forever; may his name continue as long as the sun; may people be blessed in him; may all nations call him blessed.
PSA 72:18 May Yahweh God, the God of Israel, be blessed, who alone does wonderful things.
PSA 72:19 May his glorious name be blessed forever, and may the whole earth be filled with his glory. Amen and Amen.
PSA 72:20 The prayers of David son of Jesse are finished. \ms Book Three \mr (Psalms 73-89)
PSA 73:1 Surely God is good to Israel, to those with a pure heart.
PSA 73:2 But as for me, my feet almost slipped; my feet almost slipped out from under me
PSA 73:3 because I was envious of the arrogant when I saw the prosperity of the wicked.
PSA 73:4 For they have no pain until their death, but they are strong and well fed.
PSA 73:5 They are not in trouble like other men; they are not afflicted like other men.
PSA 73:6 Pride adorns them like a necklace around their neck; violence clothes them like a robe.
PSA 73:7 Out of such blindness comes sin; evil thoughts pass through their hearts.
PSA 73:8 They mock and speak wickedly; in their arrogance they threaten oppression.
PSA 73:9 They set their mouth against the heavens, and their tongues march through the earth.
PSA 73:10 Therefore his people turn to them and abundant waters are drained out.
PSA 73:11 They say, "How does God know? Is there knowledge with the Most High?"
PSA 73:12 Take notice: these people are wicked; they are always at ease, becoming richer and richer.
PSA 73:13 Surely it is in vain that I have guarded my heart and washed my hands in innocence.
PSA 73:14 For all the day long I have been afflicted and disciplined every morning.
PSA 73:15 If I had said, "I will say these things," then I would have betrayed this generation of your children.
PSA 73:16 Though I tried to understand these things, it was too difficult for me.
PSA 73:17 Then I went into God's sanctuary and came to understand their fate.
PSA 73:18 Surely you put them in slippery places; you bring them down to ruin.
PSA 73:19 How they become a wilderness in a moment! They come to an end and are finished in awful terrors.
PSA 73:20 They are like a dream after one wakes up; Lord, when you arise, you will despise their image.
PSA 73:21 For my heart was embittered, and I was deeply wounded.
PSA 73:22 I was ignorant and lacked insight; I was like a senseless animal before you.
PSA 73:23 Yet I am always with you; you hold my right hand.
PSA 73:24 You will guide me with your advice and afterward receive me to glory.
PSA 73:25 Whom have I in heaven but you? There is no one on earth that I desire but you.
PSA 73:26 My flesh and my heart grow weak, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever.
PSA 73:27 Those who are far from you will perish; you will destroy all those who are unfaithful to you.
PSA 73:28 But as for me, all I need to do is to approach God. I have made the Lord Yahweh my refuge. I will declare all your deeds.
PSA 74:1 God, why have you rejected us forever? Why does your anger burn against the sheep of your pasture?
PSA 74:2 Call to mind your people, whom you purchased in ancient times, the tribe whom you have redeemed to be your own heritage, and Mount Zion, where you live.
PSA 74:3 Come look at the everlasting ruins, all the damage that the enemy has done in the holy place.
PSA 74:4 Your adversaries roared in the middle of your appointed place; they set up their battle flags.
PSA 74:5 They hacked away with axes as in a thick forest.
PSA 74:6 They smashed and broke down all the engravings; they broke them with axes and hammers.
PSA 74:7 They set your sanctuary on fire, knocking it to the ground; they desecrated the dwelling place of your name.
PSA 74:8 They said in their hearts, "We will destroy them all." They burned up all the meeting places of God in the land.
PSA 74:9 We do not see any more signs; there is no prophet any more, and no one among us knows how long this will last.
PSA 74:10 How long, God, will the enemy throw insults at you? Will the enemy blaspheme your name forever?
PSA 74:11 Why do you hold back your hand, your right hand? Take your right hand from your garment and destroy them.
PSA 74:12 Yet God has been my king from ancient times, bringing salvation on the earth.
PSA 74:13 You divided the sea by your strength; you smashed the heads of the sea monsters in the waters.
PSA 74:14 You crushed the heads of leviathan; you fed him to those living in the wilderness.
PSA 74:15 You broke open springs and streams; you dried up flowing rivers.
PSA 74:16 The day is yours, and the night is yours also; you set the light and the sun in place.
PSA 74:17 You have set all the borders of the earth; you have made summer and winter.
PSA 74:18 Call to mind how the enemy hurled insults at you, Yahweh, and that a foolish people has blasphemed your name.
PSA 74:19 Do not give the life of your dove to a wild animal. Do not forget forever the life of your oppressed people.
PSA 74:20 Remember your covenant, for the dark regions of the land are full of places of violence.
PSA 74:21 Do not let the oppressed be turned back in shame; let the poor and oppressed praise your name.
PSA 74:22 Arise, God; plead your own cause; call to mind how fools mock you all day long.
PSA 74:23 Do not forget the voice of your adversaries or the uproar of those who continually defy you.
PSA 75:1 We give thanks to you, God; we give thanks, for your name is near; people tell of your wondrous works.
PSA 75:2 At the appointed time I will judge fairly.
PSA 75:3 Though the earth and all the inhabitants shake in fear, I make steady the earth's pillars. Selah
PSA 75:4 I said to the arrogant, "Do not be arrogant," and to the wicked, "Do not lift up the horn.
PSA 75:5 Do not lift up your horn to the heights; do not speak with an arrogant neck."
PSA 75:6 It is not from the east or from the west, and it is not from the wilderness that lifting up comes.
PSA 75:7 But God is the judge; he brings down and he lifts up.
PSA 75:8 For Yahweh holds in his hand a cup of foaming wine, which is mixed with spices, and pours it out. Surely all the wicked of the earth will drink it to the last drop.
PSA 75:9 But I will continually tell what you have done; I will sing praises to the God of Jacob.
PSA 75:10 He says, "I will cut off all the horns of the wicked, but the horns of the righteous will be raised up."
PSA 76:1 God has made himself known in Judah; his name is great in Israel.
PSA 76:2 His tent is in Salem; his dwelling place is in Zion.
PSA 76:3 There he broke the arrows of the bow, the shield, the sword, and the other weapons of war. Selah
PSA 76:4 You shine brightly and are majestic as you descend from the mountains, where you killed your victims.
PSA 76:5 The brave of heart were plundered; they fell asleep. All the warriors were helpless.
PSA 76:6 At your rebuke, God of Jacob, both charioteer and horse fell asleep.
PSA 76:7 You, yes you, are to be feared; who can stand in your sight when you are angry?
PSA 76:8 From heaven you made your judgment heard; the earth was afraid and silent
PSA 76:9 when you, God, arose to execute judgment and to save all the oppressed of the earth. Selah
PSA 76:10 Surely your angry judgment against humanity will bring you praise; you gird yourself with the remnant of your anger.
PSA 76:11 Make vows to Yahweh your God and keep them. May all who surround him bring tribute to him who is to be feared.
PSA 76:12 He cuts off the spirit of the princes; he is feared by the kings of the earth.
PSA 77:1 I will call with my voice to God; I will call out with my voice to God, and my God will give ear to me.
PSA 77:2 In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord; at night I stretched my hands out, and they would not become tired. My soul refused to be comforted.
PSA 77:3 I thought of God as I groaned; I thought about him as I grew faint. Selah
PSA 77:4 You held my eyes open; I was too troubled to speak.
PSA 77:5 I thought about the days of old, about years long past.
PSA 77:6 During the night I called to mind the song I once sang. I thought carefully and tried to understand what had happened.
PSA 77:7 Will the Lord reject me forever? Will he never again show me favor?
PSA 77:8 Was his covenant faithfulness gone forever? Had his promise failed forever?
PSA 77:9 Had God forgotten to be gracious? Had his anger shut off his compassion? Selah
PSA 77:10 I said, "This is my sorrow: the changing of the right hand of the Most High toward us."
PSA 77:11 But I will remember the deeds of Yah;\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f* I will remember your miracles of long ago.
PSA 77:12 I will ponder all your deeds and will reflect on them.
PSA 77:13 Your way, God, is holy; what god compares to our great God?
PSA 77:14 You are the God who does wonders; you have revealed your strength among the peoples.
PSA 77:15 You gave your people victory by your great power— the descendants of Jacob and Joseph. Selah
PSA 77:16 The waters saw you, God; the waters saw you, and they were afraid; the depths trembled.
PSA 77:17 The clouds poured down water; the cloudy skies gave voice; your arrows flew about.
PSA 77:18 Your thunderous voice was heard in the wind; the lightning lit up the world; the earth trembled and shook.
PSA 77:19 Your path went through the sea and your way through the surging waters, but your footprints were not seen.
PSA 77:20 You led your people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron.
PSA 78:1 Hear my teaching, my people, listen to the words of my mouth.
PSA 78:2 I will open my mouth in parables; I will sing about hidden things about the past.
PSA 78:3 These are things that we have heard and learned, things that our ancestors have told us.
PSA 78:4 We will not keep them from their descendants. We will tell the next generation about the praiseworthy deeds of Yahweh, his strength, and the wonders that he has done.
PSA 78:5 For he established covenant decrees in Jacob and appointed a law in Israel. He commanded our ancestors that they were to teach them to their children.
PSA 78:6 He commanded this so that the generation to come might know his decrees, the children not yet born, who should tell them in turn to their own children.
PSA 78:7 Then they would place their hope in God and not forget his deeds but keep his commandments.
PSA 78:8 Then they would not be like their ancestors, who were a stubborn and rebellious generation, a generation whose hearts were not right, and whose spirits were not committed and faithful to God.
PSA 78:9 The Ephraimites were armed with bows, but they turned back on the day of battle.
PSA 78:10 They did not keep the covenant with God, and they refused to obey his law.
PSA 78:11 They forgot his deeds, the wonderful things that he had shown them.
PSA 78:12 They forgot the marvelous things he did in the sight of their ancestors in the land of Egypt, in the land of Zoan.
PSA 78:13 He divided the sea and led them across it; he made the waters to stand like walls.
PSA 78:14 In the daytime he led them with a cloud and all the night with the light of fire.
PSA 78:15 He split the rocks in the wilderness, and he gave them water abundantly, enough to fill the depths of the sea.
PSA 78:16 He made streams flow out of the rock and made the water flow like rivers.
PSA 78:17 Yet they continued to sin against him, rebelling against the Most High in the wilderness.
PSA 78:18 They challenged God in their hearts by asking for food to satisfy their appetites.
PSA 78:19 They spoke against God; they said, "Can God really lay out a table for us in the wilderness?
PSA 78:20 See, when he struck the rock, waters gushed out and streams overflowed. But can he give bread also? Will he provide meat for his people?"
PSA 78:21 When Yahweh heard this, he was angry; so his fire burned against Jacob, and his anger attacked Israel,
PSA 78:22 because they did not believe in God and did not trust in his salvation.
PSA 78:23 Yet he commanded the skies above and opened the doors of the sky.
PSA 78:24 He rained down manna for them to eat, and gave them the grain from heaven.
PSA 78:25 People ate the bread of angels. He sent them food in abundance.
PSA 78:26 He caused the east wind to blow in the sky, and by his power he guided the south wind.
PSA 78:27 He rained down meat on them like dust, birds as numerous as the sands of the sea.
PSA 78:28 They fell in the middle of their camp, all around their tents.
PSA 78:29 So they ate and were full. He gave them what they craved.
PSA 78:30 But they had not yet filled up; their food was still in their mouths.
PSA 78:31 Then God's anger attacked them and killed the strongest of them. He brought down the young men of Israel.
PSA 78:32 Despite this, they continued to sin and did not believe his wonderful deeds.
PSA 78:33 Therefore God cut short their days; their years were filled with terror.
PSA 78:34 Whenever God killed them, they would start to seek him, and they would return and look earnestly for him.
PSA 78:35 They would call to mind that God was their rock and that the Most High God was their rescuer.
PSA 78:36 But they would flatter him with their mouth and lie to him with their words.
PSA 78:37 For their hearts were not firmly fixed on him, and they were not faithful to his covenant.
PSA 78:38 Yet he, being merciful, forgave their iniquity and did not destroy them. Yes, many times he held back his anger and did not stir up all his wrath.
PSA 78:39 He called to mind that they were made of flesh, a wind that passes away and does not return.
PSA 78:40 How often they rebelled against him in the wilderness and grieved him in the barren regions!
PSA 78:41 Again and again they challenged God and offended the Holy One of Israel.
PSA 78:42 They did not think about his power, how he had rescued them from the enemy
PSA 78:43 when he performed his terrifying signs in Egypt and his wonders in the region of Zoan.
PSA 78:44 He turned the Egyptians' rivers to blood so that they could not drink from their streams.
PSA 78:45 He sent swarms of flies that devoured them and frogs that destroyed them.
PSA 78:46 He gave their crops to the grasshopper and their labor to the locust.
PSA 78:47 He destroyed their vines with hail and their sycamore trees with more hail.
PSA 78:48 He rained hail on their cattle and hurled lightning bolts at their livestock.
PSA 78:49 The fierceness of his anger lashed out against them. He sent wrath, fury, and trouble like angels who bring disaster.
PSA 78:50 He leveled a path for his anger; he did not spare them from death but gave them over to the plague.
PSA 78:51 He killed all the firstborn in Egypt, the firstborn of their strength in the tents of Ham.
PSA 78:52 He led his own people out like sheep and guided them through the wilderness like a flock.
PSA 78:53 He led them secure and unafraid, but the sea overwhelmed their enemies.
PSA 78:54 Then he brought them to the border of his holy land, to this mountain that his right hand acquired.
PSA 78:55 He drove out the nations from before them and assigned them their inheritance. He settled the tribes of Israel in their tents.
PSA 78:56 Yet they challenged and rebelled against the Most High God and did not keep his solemn commands.
PSA 78:57 They were unfaithful and acted treacherously like their fathers; they were as undependable as a faulty bow.
PSA 78:58 For they made him angry with their high places and provoked him to jealous anger with their idols.
PSA 78:59 When God heard this, he was angry and completely rejected Israel.
PSA 78:60 He abandoned the sanctuary of Shiloh, the tent where he had lived among people.
PSA 78:61 He allowed his strength to be captured and gave his glory into the enemy's hand.
PSA 78:62 He handed his people over to the sword, and he was angry with his heritage.
PSA 78:63 Fire devoured their young men, and their virgins had no wedding songs.
PSA 78:64 Their priests fell by the sword, and their widows could not weep.
PSA 78:65 Then the Lord awakened as one from sleep, like a warrior who shouts because of wine.
PSA 78:66 He drove his adversaries back; he put them to everlasting shame.
PSA 78:67 He rejected the tent of Joseph, and he did not choose the tribe of Ephraim.
PSA 78:68 He chose the tribe of Judah and Mount Zion that he loved.
PSA 78:69 He built his sanctuary like the heavens, like the earth that he has established forever.
PSA 78:70 He chose David, his servant, and took him from the sheepfolds.
PSA 78:71 He took him from following the ewes with their young, and he brought him to be shepherd of Jacob, his people, and of Israel, his heritage.
PSA 78:72 David shepherded them with the integrity of his heart, and he guided them with the skill of his hands.
PSA 79:1 God, foreign nations have come into your inheritance; they have defiled your holy temple; they have turned Jerusalem into a heap of ruins.
PSA 79:2 They have given the dead bodies of your servants as food to the birds of the skies, the bodies of your faithful ones to the beasts of the earth.
PSA 79:3 They have shed their blood like water around Jerusalem, and there was none to bury them.
PSA 79:4 We are objects of contempt to our neighbors, mocking and derision to those who are around us.
PSA 79:5 How long, Yahweh? Will you stay angry forever? How long will your jealous anger burn like fire?
PSA 79:6 Pour out your wrath on the nations that do not know you and on the kingdoms that do not call upon your name.
PSA 79:7 For they have devoured Jacob and laid waste his villages.
PSA 79:8 Do not hold the iniquities of our forefathers against us; may your merciful actions come to us, for we are very low.
PSA 79:9 Help us, God of our salvation, for the sake of the glory of your name; save us and forgive our sins for your name's sake.
PSA 79:10 Why should the nations say, "Where is their God?" May the blood of your servants that was shed be avenged on the nations before our eyes.
PSA 79:11 May the groans of the prisoners come before you; with the greatness of your power keep the children of death alive.
PSA 79:12 Pay back into the laps of our neighboring countries seven times as much as the contempt with which they have taunted you, Lord.
PSA 79:13 So we your people and sheep of your pasture will give you thanks forever. We will tell your praises to all generations.
PSA 80:1 Give ear, Shepherd of Israel, you who lead Joseph like a flock; you who sit above the cherubim, shine on us!
PSA 80:2 In the sight of Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh, stir up your power; come and save us.
PSA 80:3 God, restore us; make your face shine on us, and we will be saved.
PSA 80:4 Yahweh God of hosts, how long will you be angry at your people when they pray?
PSA 80:5 You have fed them with the bread of tears and given them tears to drink in great quantities.
PSA 80:6 You make us an object of strife for our neighbors, and our enemies laugh in mockery about us among themselves.
PSA 80:7 God of hosts, restore us; make your face shine on us, and we will be saved.
PSA 80:8 You brought a vine out of Egypt; you drove out nations and transplanted it.
PSA 80:9 You cleared the land for it; it took root and filled the land.
PSA 80:10 The mountains were covered with its shade, the cedars of God by its branches.
PSA 80:11 It sent out its branches as far as the sea and its shoots to the Euphrates River.
PSA 80:12 Why have you broken down its walls so that all who pass by along the road pluck its fruit?
PSA 80:13 The boars out of the forest ruin it, and the beasts of the field feed on it.
PSA 80:14 Turn back, God of hosts; look down from heaven and take notice and take care of this vine.
PSA 80:15 This is the root that your right hand planted, the son that you have strengthened for yourself.
PSA 80:16 It has been burned and cut down; they perish because of your rebuke.
PSA 80:17 May your hand be on the man of your right hand, on the son of man whom you strengthened for yourself.
PSA 80:18 Then we will not turn away from you; revive us, and we will call on your name.
PSA 80:19 Yahweh God of hosts, restore us; make your face shine on us, and we will be saved.
PSA 81:1 Shout joyfullly to God our strength; shout out for joy to the God of Jacob.
PSA 81:2 Sing a song and play the tambourine, the pleasant harp with the lute.
PSA 81:3 Blow the ram's horn on the day of the new moon, on the day of the full moon, when our feast day begins.
PSA 81:4 For it is a statute for Israel, a decree given by the God of Jacob.
PSA 81:5 He issued it as a regulation in Joseph when he went against the land of Egypt, where I heard a voice that I did not recognize:
PSA 81:6 "I removed the burden from his shoulder; his hands were freed from holding the basket.
PSA 81:7 In your distress you called out, and I helped you; I answered you from a dark thundercloud. I tested you at the waters of Meribah. Selah
PSA 81:8 Listen, my people, for I will warn you, Israel, if you would only listen to me!
PSA 81:9 There must be no foreign god among you; you must not worship any foreign god.
PSA 81:10 I am Yahweh your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt. Open your mouth wide, and I will fill it.
PSA 81:11 But my people did not listen to my words; Israel did not obey me.
PSA 81:12 So I gave them over to their own stubborn way so that they might follow their own devices.
PSA 81:13 Oh, that my people would listen to me; oh, that my people would walk in my paths.
PSA 81:14 Then I would quickly subdue their enemies and turn my hand against their oppressors.
PSA 81:15 May those who hate Yahweh cringe in fear before him! May they be humiliated forever.
PSA 81:16 I would feed Israel with the finest wheat; I would satisfy you with honey out of the rock."
PSA 82:1 God stands in the divine assembly; in the midst of the gods he renders judgment.
PSA 82:2 How long will you judge unjustly and show favoritism to the wicked? Selah
PSA 82:3 Give justice to the poor and fatherless; maintain the rights of the afflicted and destitute.
PSA 82:4 Rescue the poor and needy; take them out of the hand of the wicked.
PSA 82:5 They neither know nor understand; they wander around in the darkness; all the foundations of the earth crumble.
PSA 82:6 I said, "You are gods, and all of you are sons of the Most High.
PSA 82:7 Nevertheless you will die like men and fall like one of the princes."
PSA 82:8 Arise, God, judge the earth, for you have an inheritance in all the nations.
PSA 83:1 God, do not be silent! Do not ignore us and remain unmoved, God.
PSA 83:2 Look, your enemies are making a commotion, and those who hate you have raised their heads.
PSA 83:3 They make shrewd plans against your people and plan together against your protected ones.
PSA 83:4 They have said, "Come, and let us destroy them as a nation. Then the name of Israel will no longer be remembered."
PSA 83:5 They schemed together with one strategy; they made an alliance against you—
PSA 83:6 the tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites, of Moab and the Hagrites,
PSA 83:7 Byblos,\f + \ft Some modern English translations read, \fqa Gebal\fqa*. \f* Ammon, Amalek; and also Philistia and the inhabitants of Tyre.
PSA 83:8 Assyria also has joined with them; they have become an arm for the descendants of Lot. Selah
PSA 83:9 Do to them as you did to Midian, as you did to Sisera and to Jabin at the Kishon River.
PSA 83:10 They perished at Endor and became like manure for the earth.
PSA 83:11 Make their nobles like Oreb and Zeeb, and all their princes like Zebah and Zalmunna.
PSA 83:12 They said, "Let us take for ourselves the pastures of God."
PSA 83:13 My God, make them like the whirling dust, like chaff before the wind,
PSA 83:14 like the fire that burns the forest, and like the flame that sets the mountains on fire.
PSA 83:15 Chase them with your strong wind, and terrify them with your windstorm.
PSA 83:16 Fill their faces with shame so that they might seek your name, Yahweh.
PSA 83:17 May they be put to shame and be terrified forever; may they perish in disgrace.
PSA 83:18 Then they will know that you alone, whose name is Yahweh, are the Most High over all the earth.
PSA 84:1 How lovely is the place where you live, Yahweh of hosts!
PSA 84:2 I long for the courts of Yahweh; my desire for it has made me exhausted. My heart and all of my being shout for joy to the living God.
PSA 84:3 Even the sparrow has found herself a house and the swallow a nest for herself where she may lay her young near your altars, Yahweh of hosts, my King, and my God.
PSA 84:4 Blessed are they who live in your house; they praise you continually. Selah
PSA 84:5 Blessed is the man whose strength is in you, in whose heart are the highways up to Zion.
PSA 84:6 As they go through the Valley of Tears they make it a place of springs. The early rains cover it with blessings.\f + \ft Some scholars translate the Hebrew as \fqa cover it with pools of water\fqa*. \f*
PSA 84:7 They go from strength to strength; every one of them appears before God in Zion.
PSA 84:8 Yahweh God of hosts, hear my prayer; give ear, God of Jacob! Selah
PSA 84:9 God, watch over our shield; show concern for your anointed.
PSA 84:10 For one day in your courts is better than a thousand elsewhere. I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God, than to live within the tents of the wicked.
PSA 84:11 For Yahweh God is our sun and shield; Yahweh will give grace and glory; he does not withhold any good thing from those who walk in integrity.
PSA 84:12 Yahweh of hosts, blessed is the man who trusts in you.
PSA 85:1 Yahweh, you have shown favor to your land; you have restored the well-being of Jacob.
PSA 85:2 You have forgiven the iniquity of your people; you have covered all their sin. Selah
PSA 85:3 You have withdrawn all your wrath; you have turned back from your hot anger.
PSA 85:4 Restore us, God of our salvation, and let go of your displeasure with us.
PSA 85:5 Will you be angry with us forever? Will you remain angry throughout future generations?
PSA 85:6 Will you not revive us again? Then your people will rejoice in you.
PSA 85:7 Show us your covenant faithfulness, Yahweh; grant us your salvation.
PSA 85:8 I will listen to what Yahweh God says, for he will make peace with his people, his faithful ones. Yet they must not turn again to foolish ways.
PSA 85:9 Surely his salvation is near to those who fear him; then glory will remain in our land.
PSA 85:10 Steadfast love and faithfulness have met together; righteousness and peace have kissed each other.
PSA 85:11 Trustworthiness springs up from the ground, and righteousness looks down from the sky.
PSA 85:12 Yes, Yahweh will give his good blessings, and our land will yield its crops.
PSA 85:13 Righteousness will go before him and make a way for his footsteps.
PSA 86:1 Listen, Yahweh, and answer me, for I am poor and needy.
PSA 86:2 Protect me, for I am faithful; my God, save your servant who trusts in you.
PSA 86:3 Be merciful to me, Lord, for I cry out to you all day long.
PSA 86:4 Make your servant glad, for to you, Lord, I lift up my soul.
PSA 86:5 You, Lord, are good, and ready to forgive, abounding in steadfast love to all those who cry out to you.
PSA 86:6 Give ear, Yahweh, to my prayer; hear the sound of my pleas.
PSA 86:7 In the day of my trouble I call on you, for you will answer me.
PSA 86:8 There is no one who compares to you among the gods, Lord. There are no deeds like your deeds.
PSA 86:9 All the nations that you have made will come and bow before you, Lord. They will honor your name.
PSA 86:10 For you are great and do wonderful things; you only are God.
PSA 86:11 Teach me your ways, Yahweh. Then I will walk in your truth. Unite my heart to reverence your name.
PSA 86:12 Lord my God, I will praise you with my whole heart; I will glorify your name forever.
PSA 86:13 For great is your covenant faithfulness toward me; you have rescued my life from the depths of Sheol.
PSA 86:14 God, the arrogant have risen up against me. A company of violent men seek my life. They have no regard for you.
PSA 86:15 But you, Lord, are a merciful and gracious God, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness.
PSA 86:16 Turn toward me and have mercy on me; give your strength to your servant; save the son of your servant woman.
PSA 86:17 Show me a sign of your favor. Then those who hate me will see it and be put to shame because you, Yahweh, have helped me and comforted me.
PSA 87:1 On the holy mount stands the city he founded;
PSA 87:2 Yahweh loves the gates of Zion more than all the tents of Jacob.
PSA 87:3 Glorious things are said of you, city of God. Selah
PSA 87:4 "I mention Rahab and Babylon to my followers. See, there are Philistia, and Tyre, along with Cush— and will say, 'This one was born there.'"
PSA 87:5 Of Zion it will be said, "Each of these was born in her; and the Most High himself will establish her."
PSA 87:6 Yahweh writes in the census book of the nations, "This one was born there." Selah
PSA 87:7 So also the singers and the dancers say together, "All my fountains are in you."
PSA 88:1 Yahweh, God of my salvation, I cry out day and night before you.
PSA 88:2 Listen to my prayer; pay attention to my cry.
PSA 88:3 For I am filled with troubles, and my life has reached Sheol.
PSA 88:4 People treat me like those who go down into the pit; I am a man with no strength.
PSA 88:5 I am free among the dead; I am like the dead who lie in the grave, about whom you care no more because they are cut off from your power.
PSA 88:6 You place me in the lowest part of the pit, in the dark and deep places.
PSA 88:7 Your wrath lies heavy on me, and all your waves crash over me. Selah
PSA 88:8 Because of you, my acquaintances avoid me. You have made me an abomination to them. I am hemmed in and I cannot escape.
PSA 88:9 My eyes grow weary from trouble; All day long I call out to you, Yahweh; I spread out my hands to you.
PSA 88:10 Will you do wonders for the dead? Will those who have died rise and praise you? Selah
PSA 88:11 Will your covenant faithfulness be proclaimed in the grave, your faithfulness in the place of the dead?
PSA 88:12 Will your wonderful deeds be known in the darkness, or your righteousness in the place of forgetfulness?
PSA 88:13 But I cry to you, Yahweh; in the morning my prayer comes before you.
PSA 88:14 Yahweh, why do you reject me? Why do you hide your face from me?
PSA 88:15 I have always been afflicted and on the verge of death since my youth. I have suffered from your terrors; I am in despair.
PSA 88:16 Your burning anger has passed over me, and your terrifying deeds have annihilated me.
PSA 88:17 They surround me like water all the day long; they have all encircled me.
PSA 88:18 You have removed every friend and acquaintance from me. My only acquaintance is the darkness.
PSA 89:1 I will sing of Yahweh's acts of covenant faithfulness forever. I will proclaim your truthfulness to future generations.
PSA 89:2 For I have said, “Covenant faithfulness has been established forever; your truthfulness you have established in the heavens.”
PSA 89:3 You said, “I have made a covenant with my chosen one, I have made an oath to David my servant:
PSA 89:4 ‘I will establish your descendants forever, and I will establish your throne through all generations.‘” Selah
PSA 89:5 The heavens praise your wonders, Yahweh; your truthfulness is praised in the assembly of the holy ones.
PSA 89:6 For who in the skies can be compared to Yahweh? Who among the sons of the gods is like Yahweh?
PSA 89:7 He is a God who is greatly honored in the council of the holy ones and is awesome among all who surround him.
PSA 89:8 Yahweh God of hosts, who is strong like Yah?\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f* Your truthfulness surrounds you.
PSA 89:9 You rule the raging sea; when the waves surge, you calm them.
PSA 89:10 You crushed Rahab as one who is killed. You scattered your enemies with your strong arm.
PSA 89:11 The heavens belong to you, and the earth also. You established the world and all it contains.
PSA 89:12 You created the north and the south. Tabor and Hermon rejoice in your name.
PSA 89:13 You have a mighty arm and a strong hand, and your right hand is high.
PSA 89:14 Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne. Steadfast love and faithfulness come before you.
PSA 89:15 Blessed are the people who know the joyful sound! Yahweh, they walk in the light of your face.
PSA 89:16 They rejoice in your name all day long, and in your righteousness they exalt you.
PSA 89:17 You are their glorious strength, and by your favor our horn is exalted.
PSA 89:18 For our shield belongs to Yahweh; our king belongs to the Holy One of Israel.
PSA 89:19 Long ago you spoke in a vision to your faithful ones;\f + \ft Many ancient copies of the Hebrew text have the singular \fqa faithful one \fqa* instead of \fqa faithful ones\fqa*. \f* you said, "I have set a crown on a mighty one."\f + \ft The ancient copies of the Hebrew text have \fqa I will place help upon a warrior\fqa*. Some scholars translate the word for \fqa help \fqa* as \fqa crown \fqa* and that is how the ULB editors have translated the word here. \f* I have raised up one chosen from among the people.
PSA 89:20 I have chosen David my servant; with my holy oil have I anointed him.
PSA 89:21 My hand will support him; my arm will strengthen him.
PSA 89:22 No enemy will deceive him; no son of wickedness will oppress him.
PSA 89:23 I will crush his enemies before him; I will kill those who hate him.
PSA 89:24 My truth and my covenant faithfulness will be with him; by my name his horn will be exalted.
PSA 89:25 I will place his hand over the sea and his right hand over the rivers.
PSA 89:26 He will call out to me, 'You are my Father, my God, and the rock of my salvation.'
PSA 89:27 I also will place him as my firstborn son, the most exalted of the kings of the earth.
PSA 89:28 I will extend my covenant faithfulness to him forever; and my covenant with him will be secure.
PSA 89:29 I will make his descendants endure forever and his throne as enduring as the skies above.
PSA 89:30 If his children abandon my law and do not walk in my regulations,
PSA 89:31 if they break my rules and do not keep my commands,
PSA 89:32 then will I punish their rebellion with a rod and their iniquity with blows.
PSA 89:33 But I will not remove my steadfast love from him or be unfaithful to my promise.
PSA 89:34 I will not break my covenant or change the words of my lips.
PSA 89:35 Once and for all I have sworn by my holiness— I will not lie to David:
PSA 89:36 his descendants will continue forever and his throne as long as the sun before me.
PSA 89:37 It will be established forever like the moon, the faithful witness in the sky." Selah
PSA 89:38 But you have refused and rejected; you have been angry with your anointed king.
PSA 89:39 You have renounced the covenant of your servant. You have desecrated his crown on the ground.
PSA 89:40 You have broken down all his walls. You have ruined his strongholds.
PSA 89:41 All who pass by have robbed him. He has become the scorn of his neighbors.
PSA 89:42 You have raised the right hand of his enemies; you have made all his enemies rejoice.
PSA 89:43 You turn back the edge of his sword and have not made him stand when in battle.
PSA 89:44 You have brought his splendor to an end; you have brought down his throne to the ground.
PSA 89:45 You have shortened the days of his youth. You have covered him with shame. Selah
PSA 89:46 How long, Yahweh? Will you hide yourself forever? How long will your anger burn like fire?
PSA 89:47 Oh, think about how short my time is, and for what vanity you have created all the children of mankind!
PSA 89:48 Who can live and not die, or rescue his own life from the hand of Sheol? Selah
PSA 89:49 Lord, where are your former acts of covenant faithfulness that you swore to David in your truthfulness?
PSA 89:50 Call to mind, Lord, the mocking directed against your servants and how I bear in my heart so many insults from the nations.
PSA 89:51 Your enemies hurl insults, Yahweh; they mock the footsteps of your anointed one.
PSA 89:52 Blessed be Yahweh forever. Amen and Amen. \ms Book Four \mr (Psalms 90-106)
PSA 90:1 Lord, you have been our refuge throughout all generations.
PSA 90:2 Before the mountains were formed, or you formed the earth and the world, from everlasting to everlasting, you are God.
PSA 90:3 You return man to dust, and you say, "Return, you descendants of mankind."
PSA 90:4 For a thousand years in your sight are as yesterday when it is past, and as a watch in the night.
PSA 90:5 You sweep them away as with a flood and they sleep; in the morning they are like the grass that sprouts up.
PSA 90:6 In the morning it blooms and grows up; in the evening it withers and dries up.
PSA 90:7 Truly, we are consumed in your anger, and in your wrath we are terrified.
PSA 90:8 You have set our iniquities before you, our hidden sins in the light of your presence.
PSA 90:9 Our life passes away under your wrath; our years quickly pass like a sigh.
PSA 90:10 Our years are seventy, or even eighty if we are healthy; but even our best years are marked by trouble and sorrow. Yes, they pass quickly, and we fly away.
PSA 90:11 Who knows the power of your anger, and your wrath that is equal to the fear of you?
PSA 90:12 So teach us to consider our life so that we might gain a heart of wisdom.
PSA 90:13 Turn back, Yahweh! How long will it be? Have pity on your servants.
PSA 90:14 Satisfy us in the morning with your covenant faithfulness so that we may rejoice and be glad all our days.
PSA 90:15 Make us glad in proportion to the days you afflicted us and to the years we have experienced trouble.
PSA 90:16 Let your servants see your work, and let our children see your majesty.
PSA 90:17 May the favor of the Lord our God be ours; prosper the work of our hands; indeed, prosper the work of our hands.
PSA 91:1 He who lives in the shelter of the Most High will stay in the shadow of the Almighty.
PSA 91:2 I will say of Yahweh, "He is my refuge and my fortress, my God, in whom I trust."
PSA 91:3 For he will rescue you from the snare of the hunter and from the destructive plague.
PSA 91:4 He will cover you with his wings, and under his wings you will find refuge. His faithfulness is a shield and protection.
PSA 91:5 You will not be afraid of terror in the night, or of the arrow that flies by day,
PSA 91:6 or of the plague that stalks in the darkness, or of the destruction that lays waste at noon.
PSA 91:7 A thousand may fall at your side and ten thousand at your right hand, but it will not reach you.
PSA 91:8 You will only observe and see the punishment of the wicked.
PSA 91:9 For Yahweh is my refuge! Make the Most High your refuge also.
PSA 91:10 No evil will overtake you; no affliction will come near your tent.
PSA 91:11 For he will put his angels in charge over you, to guard you in all your ways.
PSA 91:12 They will lift you up with their hand so that you will not hit your foot on a stone.
PSA 91:13 You will crush lions and asps under your feet; you will trample on young lions and serpents.
PSA 91:14 Because he delights in me, I will rescue him. I will protect him because he acknowledges my name.
PSA 91:15 When he calls to me, I will answer him. I will be with him in trouble; I will give him victory and will honor him.
PSA 91:16 I will satisfy him with the length of his days, and show him my salvation.
PSA 92:1 It is a good thing to give thanks to Yahweh and to sing praises to your name, Most High,
PSA 92:2 to proclaim your covenant faithfulness in the morning and your truthfulness every night,
PSA 92:3 with a lute of ten strings and the resounding music of the harp.
PSA 92:4 For you, Yahweh, have made me glad through your deeds. I will sing for joy because of the deeds of your hands.
PSA 92:5 How great are your deeds, Yahweh! Your thoughts are very deep.
PSA 92:6 A brutish person does not know, nor does a fool understand this:
PSA 92:7 When the wicked sprout like the grass, and even when all those who behave wickedly thrive, still they are doomed to eternal destruction.
PSA 92:8 But you, Yahweh, will reign forever.
PSA 92:9 Indeed, look at your enemies, Yahweh! Indeed, look at your enemies. They will perish! All those who behave wickedly will be scattered.
PSA 92:10 You have lifted up my horn like the horn of the wild ox; I am anointed with fresh oil.
PSA 92:11 My eyes have seen the downfall of my enemies; my ears have heard of the doom of my evil foes.
PSA 92:12 The righteous will flourish like the palm tree; they will grow like a cedar in Lebanon.
PSA 92:13 They are planted in the house of Yahweh; they flourish in the courts of our God.
PSA 92:14 They bear fruit even when they are old; they stay fresh and green,
PSA 92:15 to proclaim that Yahweh is just. He is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in him.
PSA 93:1 Yahweh reigns; he is robed in majesty; Yahweh has clothed and girded himself with strength. The world is firmly established; it cannot be moved.
PSA 93:2 Your throne is established from ancient times; you are from everlasting.
PSA 93:3 The oceans rise, Yahweh; they have lifted up their voice; the oceans' waves crash and roar.
PSA 93:4 Above the crashing of many waves, the mighty breakers of the sea, Yahweh on high is mighty.
PSA 93:5 Your solemn commands are very trustworthy; holiness adorns your house, Yahweh, for the length of your days.
PSA 94:1 Yahweh, God who avenges, God who avenges, shine over us.
PSA 94:2 Rise up, judge of the earth, give recompense to the proud.
PSA 94:3 How long will the wicked, Yahweh, how long will the wicked rejoice?
PSA 94:4 They pour out their arrogant words; all those who behave wickedly boast.
PSA 94:5 They crush your people, Yahweh; they afflict your heritage.
PSA 94:6 They kill the widow and foreigner who lives in their country, and they murder the fatherless.
PSA 94:7 They say, "Yah does not see; the God of Jacob does not take notice of it."\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f*
PSA 94:8 Pay attention, you stupid people! You fools, when will you gain understanding?
PSA 94:9 He who made the ear, does he not hear? He who formed the eye, does he not see?
PSA 94:10 He who disciplines the nations, does he not correct? He is the one who gives knowledge to man.
PSA 94:11 Yahweh knows the thoughts of men, that they are vapor.
PSA 94:12 Blessed is the one whom Yah instructs, the one whom you teach from your law.\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f*
PSA 94:13 You give him rest in times of trouble until a pit is dug for the wicked.
PSA 94:14 For Yahweh will not abandon his people or abandon his inheritance.
PSA 94:15 For judgment will again be righteous; and all the upright in heart will follow it.
PSA 94:16 Who will rise up to defend me against the evildoers? Who will stand up for me against those who behave wickedly?
PSA 94:17 Unless Yahweh had been my help, I would soon be lying down in the place of silence.
PSA 94:18 When I said, "My foot is slipping," Your covenant faithfulness, Yahweh, held me up.
PSA 94:19 When cares within me are many, your consolations delight my soul.
PSA 94:20 Can a throne of destruction be allied with you, one that creates trouble by statute?
PSA 94:21 They conspire together to take the life of the righteous and they declare guilty the blood of the innocent.
PSA 94:22 But Yahweh has been my high tower, and my God has been the rock of my refuge.
PSA 94:23 He will bring on them their own iniquity and will cut them off in their own wickedness. Yahweh our God will cut them off.
PSA 95:1 Oh come, let us sing to Yahweh; let us shout joyfully to the rock of our salvation.
PSA 95:2 Let us enter his presence with thanksgiving; let us shout joyfully to him with psalms of praise.
PSA 95:3 For Yahweh is a great God and a great King superior to all gods.
PSA 95:4 In his hand are the depths of the earth; the heights of the mountains are his.
PSA 95:5 The sea is his, for he made it, and his hands formed the dry land.
PSA 95:6 Oh come, let us worship and bow down; let us kneel before Yahweh, our Creator:
PSA 95:7 For he is our God, and we are the people of his pasture and the sheep of his hand. Today—oh, that you would hear his voice!
PSA 95:8 "Do not harden your heart, as at Meribah, or as on the day of Massah in the wilderness,
PSA 95:9 where your forefathers tested me; they put me to the test, though they had seen my deeds.
PSA 95:10 For forty years I was angry with that generation and said, 'This is a people whose hearts wander astray; they have not known my ways.'
PSA 95:11 Therefore I swore in my anger that they would never enter into my resting place."
PSA 96:1 Oh, sing to Yahweh a new song; sing to Yahweh, all the earth.
PSA 96:2 Sing to Yahweh, bless his name; announce his salvation day after day.
PSA 96:3 Declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous deeds among all the nations.
PSA 96:4 For Yahweh is great and is to be praised greatly. He is to be feared above all other gods.
PSA 96:5 For all the gods of the nations are idols, but it is Yahweh who made the heavens.
PSA 96:6 Splendor and majesty are in his presence. Strength and beauty are in his sanctuary.
PSA 96:7 Ascribe to Yahweh, you clans of peoples, ascribe praise to Yahweh for his glory and strength.
PSA 96:8 Give to Yahweh the glory that his name deserves. Bring an offering and come into his courts.
PSA 96:9 Bow down to Yahweh in the splendor of holiness; tremble before him, all the earth.
PSA 96:10 Say among the nations, "Yahweh reigns." The world also is established; it cannot be shaken. He judges the peoples fairly.
PSA 96:11 Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice; let the sea roar and that which fills it shout with joy.
PSA 96:12 Let the fields rejoice and all that is in them. Then let all the trees in the forest shout for joy
PSA 96:13 before Yahweh, for he is coming. He is coming to judge the earth. He will judge the world with righteousness and the peoples with his faithfulness.
PSA 97:1 Yahweh reigns; let the earth rejoice; let the many coastlands be glad.
PSA 97:2 Clouds and darkness surround him. Righteousness and justice are the foundation of his throne.
PSA 97:3 Fire goes before him and consumes his adversaries on every side.
PSA 97:4 His lightning lights up the world; the earth sees and trembles.
PSA 97:5 The mountains melt like wax before Yahweh, the Lord of the whole earth.
PSA 97:6 The skies declare his justice, and all the nations see his glory.
PSA 97:7 All those who worship carved figures will be shamed, those who boast in worthless idols— bow down to him, all you gods!
PSA 97:8 Zion heard and was glad, and the towns of Judah rejoiced because of your righteous decrees, Yahweh.
PSA 97:9 For you, Yahweh, are most high above all the earth. You are exalted far above all gods.
PSA 97:10 You who love Yahweh, hate evil! He protects the lives of his faithful ones, and he takes them out of the hand of the wicked.
PSA 97:11 Light is sown for the righteous and gladness for those with honest hearts.
PSA 97:12 Be glad in Yahweh, you righteous; and give thanks when you remember his holiness.
PSA 98:1 Oh, sing to Yahweh a new song, for he has done marvelous things; his right hand and his holy arm have given him victory.
PSA 98:2 Yahweh has made known his salvation; he has openly showed his justice to all the nations.
PSA 98:3 He calls to mind his steadfast love and faithfulness for the house of Israel; all the ends of the earth will see the victory of our God.
PSA 98:4 Shout for joy to Yahweh, all the earth; burst into song, sing for joy, and sing praises.
PSA 98:5 Sing praises to Yahweh with the harp, with the harp and melodious song.
PSA 98:6 With trumpets and the sound of the horn, shout joyfully before the King, Yahweh.
PSA 98:7 Let the sea shout and everything in it, the world and those who live in it!
PSA 98:8 Let the rivers clap their hands, and let the mountains shout for joy.
PSA 98:9 Yahweh is coming to judge the earth; he will judge the world with righteousness and the nations with fairness.
PSA 99:1 Yahweh reigns; let the nations tremble. He sits enthroned above the cherubim; the earth quakes.
PSA 99:2 Yahweh is great in Zion; he is exalted above all the nations.
PSA 99:3 Let them praise your great and awesome name; he is holy.
PSA 99:4 The king is strong, and he loves justice. You have established fairness; you have done righteousness and justice in Jacob.
PSA 99:5 Praise Yahweh our God and worship at his footstool. He is holy.
PSA 99:6 Moses and Aaron were among his priests, and Samuel was among those who called on his name. They called to Yahweh, and he answered them.
PSA 99:7 He spoke to them from the pillar of cloud. They kept his solemn commands and the statutes that he gave them.
PSA 99:8 You answered them, Yahweh our God. A forgiving God you were to them, but also an avenger of their sinful deeds.
PSA 99:9 Praise Yahweh our God, and worship at his holy hill, for Yahweh our God is holy.
PSA 100:1 Shout joyfully to Yahweh, all the earth.
PSA 100:2 Serve Yahweh with gladness; come before his presence with joyful singing.
PSA 100:3 Know that Yahweh is God; he made us, and we are his. We are his people and the sheep of his pasture.
PSA 100:4 Enter into his gates with thanksgiving and into his courts with praise. Give thanks to him and bless his name.
PSA 100:5 For Yahweh is good; his covenant faithfulness endures forever and his truthfulness through all generations.
PSA 101:1 I will sing of covenant faithfulness and justice; to you, Yahweh, I will sing praises.
PSA 101:2 I will pay attention to the way of integrity. Oh, when will you come to me? I will walk with integrity of heart within my house.
PSA 101:3 I will not put wrongdoing before my eyes; I hate worthless evil; it will not cling to me.
PSA 101:4 A perverse heart will leave me; I am not loyal to evil.
PSA 101:5 I will destroy whoever secretly slanders his neighbor. I will not tolerate the haughty of eye and arrogant of heart.
PSA 101:6 I will look to the faithful of the land to sit at my side. Those who walk in the way of integrity may serve me.
PSA 101:7 Deceitful people will not remain within my house; liars will not be welcome before my eyes.
PSA 101:8 Morning by morning I will destroy all the wicked from the land; I will remove all who behave wickedly from the city of Yahweh.
PSA 102:1 Hear my prayer, Yahweh; hear my cry to you.
PSA 102:2 Do not hide your face from me in my time of trouble. Listen to me. When I call out to you, answer me quickly.
PSA 102:3 For my days pass away like smoke, and my bones burn like fire.
PSA 102:4 My heart is crushed, and I am like grass that has withered. I forget to eat any food.
PSA 102:5 With my continual groaning, I have become very thin.
PSA 102:6 I am like a pelican of the wilderness; I have become like an owl in the ruins.
PSA 102:7 I lie awake like a solitary bird, alone on the housetop.
PSA 102:8 My enemies taunt me all day long; those who mock me use my name in curses.
PSA 102:9 I eat ashes like bread and mix my drink with tears.
PSA 102:10 Because of your raging anger, you have lifted me up to throw me down.
PSA 102:11 My days are like a shadow that fades, and I have withered like grass.
PSA 102:12 But you, Yahweh, live forever, and your fame is for all generations.
PSA 102:13 You will rise up and have mercy on Zion. Now is the time to have mercy upon her; the appointed time has come.
PSA 102:14 For your servants hold her stones dear and feel compassion for the dust of her ruins.
PSA 102:15 The nations will respect your name, Yahweh, and all the kings of the earth will honor your glory.
PSA 102:16 Yahweh will rebuild Zion and will appear in his glory.
PSA 102:17 At that time, he will respond to the prayer of the destitute; he will not reject their prayer.
PSA 102:18 This will be written for future generations, and a people not yet created will praise Yah.\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f*
PSA 102:19 For he has looked down from the holy heights; from heaven Yahweh has viewed the earth,
PSA 102:20 to hear the groaning of the prisoners, to release those who were condemned to death.
PSA 102:21 Then men will proclaim the name of Yahweh in Zion and his praise in Jerusalem
PSA 102:22 when the peoples and kingdoms gather together to serve Yahweh.
PSA 102:23 He has taken away my strength in the middle of life. He has shortened my days.
PSA 102:24 I said, "My God, do not take me away in the middle of life; you are here throughout all generations.
PSA 102:25 In ancient times you established the earth; the heavens are the work of your hands.
PSA 102:26 They will perish, but you will remain; they will all grow old like a garment; like clothing, you will remove them, and they will disappear.
PSA 102:27 But you are the same, and your years will have no end.
PSA 102:28 The children of your servants will live on, and their descendants will live in your presence."
PSA 103:1 I give praise to Yahweh with all my life, and with all that is within me, I give praise to his holy name.
PSA 103:2 I give praise to Yahweh with all my life, and I remember all of his good deeds.
PSA 103:3 He forgives all your iniquities; he heals all your diseases.
PSA 103:4 He redeems your life from the pit; he crowns you with covenant faithfulness and acts of tender mercy.
PSA 103:5 He satisfies your life with good things so that your youth is renewed like the eagle.
PSA 103:6 Yahweh does what is fair and does acts of justice for all who are oppressed.
PSA 103:7 He made known his ways to Moses, his deeds to the descendants of Israel.
PSA 103:8 Yahweh is merciful and gracious; slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love.
PSA 103:9 He will not discipline forever; he will not be angry to eternity.
PSA 103:10 He does not deal with us as our sins deserve or repay us for what our iniquities demand.
PSA 103:11 For as the skies are high above the earth, so great is his covenant faithfulness toward those who honor him.
PSA 103:12 As far as the east is from the west, this is how far he has removed the guilt of our sins from us.
PSA 103:13 As a father has compassion on his children, so Yahweh has compassion on those who honor him.
PSA 103:14 For he knows how we are formed; he knows that we are dust.
PSA 103:15 As for man, his days are like grass; he flourishes like a flower in a field.
PSA 103:16 The wind blows over it, and it disappears, and no one can even tell where it once grew.
PSA 103:17 But the covenant faithfulness of Yahweh is from everlasting to everlasting on those who honor him. His righteousness extends to their descendants.
PSA 103:18 They keep his covenant and remember to obey his instructions.
PSA 103:19 Yahweh has established his throne in the heavens, and his kingdom rules over everyone.
PSA 103:20 Give praise to Yahweh, you his angels, you mighty ones who are strong and do his word, and obey the sound of his word.
PSA 103:21 Give praise to Yahweh, all his hosts, his servants who do his will.
PSA 103:22 Give praise to Yahweh, all his creatures, in all the places where he reigns. I will give praise to Yahweh with all my life.
PSA 104:1 I give praise to Yahweh with all my life, Yahweh my God, you are very magnificent; you are clothed with splendor and majesty.
PSA 104:2 You cover yourself with light as with a garment; you spread out the heavens like a tent curtain.
PSA 104:3 You lay the beams of your chambers on the clouds; you make the clouds your chariot; you walk on the wings of the wind.
PSA 104:4 He makes the winds his messengers, flames of fire his servants.
PSA 104:5 He laid the foundations of the earth, so that it will not totter forever and ever.
PSA 104:6 You covered the earth with water like a garment; the water covered the mountains.
PSA 104:7 At your rebuke the waters retreated; at the sound of your thunder they hurried away.
PSA 104:8 The mountains rose and the valleys went down to the places that you had appointed for them.
PSA 104:9 You have set a boundary for them that they will not cross; they will not cover the earth again.
PSA 104:10 He made springs flow into the valleys; the streams flow between the mountains.
PSA 104:11 They supply water for all the animals of the field; the wild donkeys quench their thirst.
PSA 104:12 By the riverbanks the birds build their nests; they sing among the branches.
PSA 104:13 He waters the mountains from his water chambers in the sky. The earth is filled with the fruit of his labor.
PSA 104:14 He makes the grass grow for the cattle and plants for man to cultivate, so that man may produce food from the earth.
PSA 104:15 He makes wine to make man happy, oil to make his face shine, and food to sustain his life.
PSA 104:16 The trees of Yahweh get plenty of rain; the cedars of Lebanon which he planted.
PSA 104:17 There the birds make their nests. The stork makes the cypress tree her home.
PSA 104:18 The wild goats live on the high mountains; the mountain heights are a refuge for the hyraxes.
PSA 104:19 He appointed the moon to mark the seasons; the sun knows its time for setting.
PSA 104:20 You make the darkness of the night when all the beasts of the forest come out.
PSA 104:21 The young lions roar for their prey and seek their food from God.
PSA 104:22 When the sun rises, they retreat and sleep in their dens.
PSA 104:23 Meanwhile, people go out to their work and labor away until the evening.
PSA 104:24 Yahweh, how many and varied are your works! With wisdom you made them all; the earth overflows with your works.
PSA 104:25 Over there is the sea, deep and wide, teeming with innumerable creatures, both small and great.
PSA 104:26 The ships travel there, and Leviathan is also there, which you formed to play in the sea.
PSA 104:27 All these look to you in hope that you will give them their food on time.
PSA 104:28 When you give to them, they gather; when you open your hand, they are satisfied.
PSA 104:29 When you hide your face, they are troubled; if you take away their breath, they die and return to dust.
PSA 104:30 When you send out your Spirit, they are created, and you renew the surface of the ground.
PSA 104:31 May the glory of Yahweh last forever; may Yahweh enjoy his creation.
PSA 104:32 He looks down on the earth, and it shakes; he touches the mountains, and they smoke.
PSA 104:33 I will sing to Yahweh all my life; I will sing praise to my God as long as I live.
PSA 104:34 May my thoughts be sweet to him; I will rejoice in Yahweh.
PSA 104:35 May sinners vanish from the earth, and let the wicked be no more. I give praise to Yahweh with all my life. Give praise to Yah.\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f*
PSA 105:1 Give thanks to Yahweh, call on his name; make known his deeds among the nations.
PSA 105:2 Sing to him, sing praises to him; speak of all his marvelous deeds.
PSA 105:3 Boast in his holy name; let the heart of those who seek Yahweh rejoice.
PSA 105:4 Seek Yahweh and his strength; seek his presence continually.
PSA 105:5 Recall the marvelous things he has done, his miracles and the decrees from his mouth,
PSA 105:6 you descendants of Abraham his servant, you people of Jacob, his chosen ones.
PSA 105:7 He is Yahweh, our God. His decrees are on all the earth.
PSA 105:8 He keeps in mind his covenant forever, the word that he commanded for a thousand generations.
PSA 105:9 He calls to mind the covenant that he made with Abraham and his oath to Isaac.
PSA 105:10 This is what he confirmed to Jacob as a statute and to Israel as an everlasting covenant.
PSA 105:11 He said, "I will give you the land of Canaan as your share of your inheritance."
PSA 105:12 He said this when they were only few in number, so very few, and were strangers in the land.
PSA 105:13 They went from nation to nation and from one kingdom to another.
PSA 105:14 He did not allow anyone to oppress them; he rebuked kings for their sakes.
PSA 105:15 He said, "Do not touch my anointed ones, and do not harm my prophets."
PSA 105:16 He called for a famine on the land; he cut off the whole staff of bread.
PSA 105:17 He sent a man ahead of them; Joseph was sold as a servant.
PSA 105:18 His feet were bound by shackles; on his neck was put an iron collar,
PSA 105:19 until what he had said came to pass. The word of Yahweh tested him.
PSA 105:20 The king sent servants to release him; the ruler of the people set him free.
PSA 105:21 He put him in charge of his house as ruler of all his possessions
PSA 105:22 to instruct his princes as he wished and to teach his elders wisdom.
PSA 105:23 Then Israel came into Egypt, and Jacob lived for a time in the land of Ham.
PSA 105:24 Yahweh made his people fruitful, and made them stronger than their enemies.
PSA 105:25 He caused their enemies to hate his people, to mistreat his servants.
PSA 105:26 He sent Moses, his servant, and Aaron, whom he had chosen.
PSA 105:27 They performed his signs among the Egyptians, his wonders in the land of Ham.
PSA 105:28 He sent darkness and made that land dark, and they did not rebel against his commands.
PSA 105:29 He turned their water into blood and killed their fish.
PSA 105:30 Their land swarmed with frogs, even in the rooms of their rulers.
PSA 105:31 He spoke, and swarms of flies and gnats came throughout their country.
PSA 105:32 He turned their rain into hail, with fire flaming on their land.
PSA 105:33 He destroyed their vines and fig trees; he broke the trees of their country.
PSA 105:34 He spoke, and the locusts came, so many locusts.
PSA 105:35 The locusts ate up all of the vegetation in their land; They ate up all the crops of the ground.
PSA 105:36 He killed every firstborn in their land, the firstfruits of all their strength.
PSA 105:37 He brought the Israelites out with silver and gold; none of his tribes stumbled on the way.
PSA 105:38 Egypt was glad when they went away, for the Egyptians were afraid of them.
PSA 105:39 He spread a cloud for a covering and made a fire to light up the night.
PSA 105:40 The Israelites asked for food, and he brought quail and satisfied them with bread from heaven.
PSA 105:41 He split the rock, and waters gushed from it; they flowed in the wilderness like a river.
PSA 105:42 For he called to mind his holy promise that he made to Abraham his servant.
PSA 105:43 He led his people out with joy, his chosen with shouts of triumph.
PSA 105:44 He gave them the lands of the nations; they took possession of the fruit of the peoples' labors
PSA 105:45 so that they might keep his statutes and obey his laws. Give praise to Yah.\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f*
PSA 106:1 Give praise to Yah.\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f* Give thanks to Yahweh, for he is good, for his covenant faithfulness endures forever.
PSA 106:2 Who can recount the mighty acts of Yahweh or proclaim in full all his praiseworthy deeds?
PSA 106:3 Blessed are those who do what is right, and whose deeds are always just.
PSA 106:4 Call me to mind, Yahweh, when you show favor to your people; help me when you save them.
PSA 106:5 Then I will see the prosperity of your chosen, rejoice in the gladness of your nation, and glory with your inheritance.
PSA 106:6 We have sinned like our ancestors; we have done wrong, and we have done evil.
PSA 106:7 Our fathers did not pay attention to your marvelous deeds in Egypt; they ignored your many acts of covenant faithfulness; they were rebellious at the sea, the Sea of Reeds.
PSA 106:8 Nevertheless, he saved them for his name's sake so that he might reveal his power.
PSA 106:9 He rebuked the Sea of Reeds, and it dried up. Then he led them through the depths, as through a wilderness.
PSA 106:10 He saved them from the hand of those who hated them, and he rescued them from the hand of the enemy.
PSA 106:11 But the waters covered their adversaries; not one of them survived.
PSA 106:12 Then they believed his words, and they sang his praise.
PSA 106:13 But they quickly forgot his deeds; they did not wait for his instructions.
PSA 106:14 They had insatiable cravings in the wilderness, and they challenged God in the desert.
PSA 106:15 So he gave them what they requested, but he sent a horrible disease upon them.
PSA 106:16 In the camp they became jealous of Moses and Aaron, the holy priest of Yahweh.
PSA 106:17 The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan and covered the company of Abiram.
PSA 106:18 Fire broke out in their company; the fire consumed the wicked.
PSA 106:19 They made a calf at Horeb and worshiped a cast metal figure.
PSA 106:20 They traded the glory of God for the image of a bull that eats grass.
PSA 106:21 They forgot God their Savior, who had done great deeds in Egypt.
PSA 106:22 He had done wonderful things in the land of Ham and awesome deeds at the Sea of Reeds.
PSA 106:23 So he said he would destroy them— had not Moses, his chosen one, stood in the breach before him, to turn away his anger from destroying them.
PSA 106:24 Then they despised the delightful land; they did not believe his promise,
PSA 106:25 but grumbled in their tents, and did not obey Yahweh.
PSA 106:26 Therefore he raised his hand and swore to them that he would let them die in the desert,
PSA 106:27 scatter their descendants among the nations, and scatter them in foreign lands.
PSA 106:28 They worshiped the Baal of Peor and ate the sacrifices offered to the dead.
PSA 106:29 They provoked him to anger with their actions, and a plague broke out among them.
PSA 106:30 Then Phinehas stood up and mediated, and the plague subsided.
PSA 106:31 It was counted to him as a righteous deed to all generations forever.
PSA 106:32 They also angered Yahweh at the waters of Meribah, and Moses suffered because of them.
PSA 106:33 They made his spirit bitter, and he spoke thoughtlessly with his lips.
PSA 106:34 They did not destroy the nations as Yahweh had commanded them,
PSA 106:35 but they mingled with the nations, learned their practices,
PSA 106:36 and worshiped their idols, which became a snare to them.
PSA 106:37 They sacrificed their sons and their daughters to demons.
PSA 106:38 They shed innocent blood, the blood of their sons and of their daughters, whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan, desecrating the land with blood.
PSA 106:39 They were defiled by their deeds; in their actions they were like prostitutes.
PSA 106:40 So Yahweh was angry with his people, and he abhorred his inheritance.
PSA 106:41 He gave them into the hand of the nations, and those who hated them ruled over them.
PSA 106:42 Their enemies oppressed them, and they were brought into subjection to their authority.
PSA 106:43 Many times he came to help them, but they were rebellious in their purposes and were brought low by their own iniquity.
PSA 106:44 Nevertheless, he paid attention to their distress when he heard their cry for help.
PSA 106:45 He called to mind his covenant with them and relented because of his steadfast love.
PSA 106:46 He caused all their captors to have pity on them.
PSA 106:47 Save us, Yahweh, our God. Gather us from among the nations so that we may give thanks to your holy name and glory in your praises.
PSA 106:48 May Yahweh, the God of Israel, be praised from everlasting to everlasting. All the people said, "Amen." Give praise to Yah.\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f* \ms Book Five \mr (Psalms 107-150)
PSA 107:1 Give thanks to Yahweh, for he is good, and his covenant faithfulness endures forever.
PSA 107:2 Let the redeemed of Yahweh speak out, those he has rescued from the hand of the enemy.
PSA 107:3 He has gathered them out of foreign lands, from the east and from the west, from the north and from the south.
PSA 107:4 They wandered in the wilderness on a desert road and found no city in which to live.
PSA 107:5 Because they were hungry and thirsty, they fainted from exhaustion.
PSA 107:6 Then they called out to Yahweh in their trouble, and he rescued them out of their distress.
PSA 107:7 He led them by a direct path so that they would go to a city to live in.
PSA 107:8 Oh that people would praise Yahweh for his covenant faithfulness and for the amazing things he has done for humanity!
PSA 107:9 For he satisfies the longings of those who are thirsty, and the desires of those who are hungry he fills up with good things.
PSA 107:10 Some sat in darkness and in the shadow of death, prisoners in affliction and chains.
PSA 107:11 This was because they had rebelled against God's word and rejected the instruction of the Most High.
PSA 107:12 He humbled their hearts through hardship; they stumbled and there was no one to help them up.
PSA 107:13 Then they called out to Yahweh in their trouble, and he saved them out of their distress.
PSA 107:14 He brought them out of darkness and gloom and broke their bonds.
PSA 107:15 Oh that people would praise Yahweh for his covenant faithfulness and for the amazing things he has done for humanity!
PSA 107:16 For he has broken the gates of bronze and cut through the bars of iron.
PSA 107:17 They were foolish in their rebellious ways and afflicted because of their iniquities.
PSA 107:18 Their soul abhorred all food, and they came close to the gates of death.
PSA 107:19 Then they called out to Yahweh in their trouble, and he saved them out of their distress.
PSA 107:20 He sent his word and healed them, and he rescued them from the pits in which they were trapped.
PSA 107:21 Oh that people would praise Yahweh for his covenant faithfulness and for the amazing things he has done for humanity!
PSA 107:22 Let them offer the sacrifices of thanksgiving and proclaim his deeds with shouts of joy.
PSA 107:23 Some travel on the sea in ships and do business overseas.
PSA 107:24 These saw the deeds of Yahweh and his wonders on the seas.
PSA 107:25 For he commanded and aroused the windstorm that stirs up the seas.
PSA 107:26 They reached up to the sky; they went down to the depths. Their lives melted away in distress.
PSA 107:27 They swayed and staggered like drunkards and were at their wits' end.
PSA 107:28 Then they called out to Yahweh in their trouble, and he brought them out of their distress.
PSA 107:29 He calmed the storm, and the waves were stilled.
PSA 107:30 Then they rejoiced because the sea was calm, and he brought them to their desired harbor.
PSA 107:31 Oh that people would praise Yahweh for his covenant faithfulness and for the amazing things he has done for humanity!
PSA 107:32 Let them exalt him in the assembly of the people and praise him in the council of the elders.
PSA 107:33 He turns rivers into a wilderness, springs of water into dry land,
PSA 107:34 and a fruitful land into a barren place because of the wickedness of its people.
PSA 107:35 He turns the wilderness into a pool of water and dry land into springs of water.
PSA 107:36 He settles the hungry there, and they build a city to live in.
PSA 107:37 They sowed fields and planted vineyards that yielded a fruitful harvest.
PSA 107:38 He blesses them so they are very numerous. He does not let their livestock decrease in number.
PSA 107:39 They were diminished and brought low by oppression, distress, and suffering.
PSA 107:40 He pours contempt on the leaders and causes them to wander in the wilderness, where there are no roads.
PSA 107:41 But he protects the needy from affliction and cares for his families like a flock.
PSA 107:42 The upright will see this and rejoice, and all wickedness shuts its mouth.
PSA 107:43 Whoever is wise should take note of these things and meditate on Yahweh's acts of covenant faithfulness.
PSA 108:1 My heart is fixed, God! I will sing, yes, I will sing praises with all my glory.
PSA 108:2 Wake up, lute and harp; I will wake up the dawn.
PSA 108:3 I will give thanks to you, Yahweh, among the peoples; I will sing praises to you among the nations.
PSA 108:4 For your covenant faithfulness is great above the heavens; and your trustworthiness reaches to the skies.
PSA 108:5 Be exalted, God, above the heavens, and may your glory be exalted over all the earth.
PSA 108:6 So that those you love may be rescued, rescue us with your right hand and answer me.
PSA 108:7 God has spoken in his holiness; "I will rejoice; I will divide Shechem and apportion out the Valley of Sukkoth.
PSA 108:8 Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine; Ephraim also is my helmet; Judah is my scepter.
PSA 108:9 Moab is my washbasin; over Edom I will throw my sandal; I will shout in triumph because of Philistia.
PSA 108:10 Who will bring me into the fortified city? Who will lead me to Edom?"
PSA 108:11 God, have you not rejected us? You do not go into battle with our army.
PSA 108:12 Give us help against the enemy, for man's help is futile.
PSA 108:13 We will triumph with God's help; he will trample down our enemies.
PSA 109:1 God whom I praise, do not be silent.
PSA 109:2 For the wicked and deceitful attack me; they speak lies against me.
PSA 109:3 They surround me and say hateful things, and they attack me without cause.
PSA 109:4 In return for my love they accuse me, but I pray for them.
PSA 109:5 They repay me evil for good, and hatred for my love.
PSA 109:6 Appoint a wicked man over such an enemy as these people; appoint an accuser to stand at his right hand.
PSA 109:7 When he is judged, may he be found guilty; may his prayer be considered sinful.
PSA 109:8 May his days be few; may another take his office.
PSA 109:9 May his children be fatherless, and may his wife be a widow.
PSA 109:10 May his children wander about and beg, seeking food far from their ruined home.
PSA 109:11 May the creditor seize all he owns; may strangers plunder the product of his labor.
PSA 109:12 May no one extend any kindness to him; may no one have pity on his fatherless children.
PSA 109:13 May his descendants be cut off; may their name be blotted out in the next generation.
PSA 109:14 May his ancestors' iniquity be remembered before Yahweh; and may the sin of his mother not be forgotten.
PSA 109:15 May their sins always be before Yahweh; may he cut off their memory from the earth.
PSA 109:16 May Yahweh do this, for that man never bothered to show any covenant faithfulness, but harassed the oppressed, the needy, and the brokenhearted to death.
PSA 109:17 He loved cursing; may it come back upon him. He hated blessing; may it be far from him.
PSA 109:18 He clothed himself with cursing as his garment, and his curse came into his body like water, like oil into his bones.
PSA 109:19 May his curses be to him like the clothes he wears to cover himself, like the belt he always wears.
PSA 109:20 May this be the reward of my accusers from Yahweh, of those who say evil things about me.
PSA 109:21 Yahweh my Lord, deal kindly with me for your name's sake. Because your covenant faithfulness is good, save me.
PSA 109:22 For I am oppressed and needy, and my heart is wounded within me.
PSA 109:23 I am fading away like the shadow of the evening; I am shaken off like a locust.
PSA 109:24 My knees are weak from fasting; my body has become thin and has no fat.
PSA 109:25 I have become an object of scorn to my accusers; when they see me, they shake their heads.
PSA 109:26 Help me, Yahweh my God; save me by your covenant faithfulness.
PSA 109:27 Let them know that this is your hand, that you, Yahweh, have done this.
PSA 109:28 They curse, but you bless; when they attack, may they be put to shame, but may your servant rejoice.
PSA 109:29 May my adversaries be clothed with shame; may they wear their shame like a robe.
PSA 109:30 With my mouth I give great thanks to Yahweh; I will praise him in the midst of a crowd.
PSA 109:31 For he will stand at the right hand of the one who is needy, to save him from those who condemn him.
PSA 110:1 The declaration of Yahweh to my lord: "Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool."
PSA 110:2 Yahweh will hold out the scepter of your strength from Zion; rule among your enemies.
PSA 110:3 Your people will follow you in holy garments of their own free will on the day of your power; from the womb of the dawn your youth will be to you like the dew.
PSA 110:4 Yahweh has sworn and will not change his mind: "You are a priest forever, after the manner of Melchizedek."
PSA 110:5 The Lord is at your right hand. He will kill kings on the day of his anger.
PSA 110:6 He will judge the nations; he will fill the battlegrounds with dead bodies; he will kill the leaders in many countries.
PSA 110:7 He will drink of the brook along the road, and then he will lift his head up high after victory.
PSA 111:1 Give praise to Yah.\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f* I will give thanks to Yahweh with my whole heart in the assembly of the upright, in their gathering.
PSA 111:2 The works of Yahweh are great, eagerly awaited by all those who desire them.
PSA 111:3 His work is majestic and glorious, and his righteousness endures forever.
PSA 111:4 He does wonderful things that will be remembered; Yahweh is gracious and merciful.
PSA 111:5 He gives food to his faithful followers. He will always call to mind his covenant.
PSA 111:6 He showed his powerful works to his people in giving them the inheritance of the nations.
PSA 111:7 The works of his hands are trustworthy and just; all his instructions are reliable.
PSA 111:8 They are established forever, to be observed faithfully and properly.
PSA 111:9 He sent redemption to his people; he ordained his covenant forever; holy and awesome is his name.
PSA 111:10 To honor Yahweh is the beginning of wisdom; those who carry out his instructions have good understanding. His praise endures forever.
PSA 112:1 Give praise to Yah.\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f* Blessed is the man who fears Yahweh, who greatly delights in his commandments.
PSA 112:2 His descendants will be powerful on earth; the descendants of the godly man will be blessed.
PSA 112:3 Wealth and riches are in his house; his righteousness will endure forever.
PSA 112:4 Light shines in the darkness for the godly person; he is gracious, merciful, and just.
PSA 112:5 It goes well for the man who deals graciously and lends money, who conducts his affairs with honesty.
PSA 112:6 For he will never be moved; the righteous person will be remembered forever.
PSA 112:7 He does not fear bad news; he is confident, trusting in Yahweh.
PSA 112:8 His heart is tranquil, without fear, until he looks in triumph over his adversaries.
PSA 112:9 He gives freely to the poor; his righteousness endures forever; his horn will be exalted with honor.
PSA 112:10 The wicked person will see this and be angry; he will grind his teeth in rage and he will melt away; the desire of the wicked people will perish.
PSA 113:1 Give praise to Yah.\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f* Praise him, you servants of Yahweh; praise the name of Yahweh.
PSA 113:2 Blessed be the name of Yahweh, both now and forevermore.
PSA 113:3 From the rising of the sun to its setting, Yahweh's name should be praised.
PSA 113:4 Yahweh is exalted above all nations, and his glory reaches above the skies.
PSA 113:5 Who is like Yahweh our God, who has his seat on high,
PSA 113:6 who humbles himself to look down at the sky and at the earth?
PSA 113:7 He raises up the poor out of the dirt and lifts up the needy from the ash heap,
PSA 113:8 so that he may seat him with princes, with the princes of his people.
PSA 113:9 He gives a home to the barren woman of the house; he makes her a joyful mother of children. Give praise to Yah!\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f*
PSA 114:1 When Israel left Egypt, the house of Jacob from a people who spoke a foreign language,
PSA 114:2 Judah became his holy place, Israel his kingdom.
PSA 114:3 The sea looked and fled; the Jordan turned back.
PSA 114:4 The mountains skipped like rams, the hills skipped like lambs.
PSA 114:5 Why did you flee, sea? Jordan, why did you turn back?
PSA 114:6 Mountains, why did you skip like rams? You little hills, why did you skip like lambs?
PSA 114:7 Tremble, earth, before the Lord, at the presence of the God of Jacob.
PSA 114:8 He turned the rock into a pool of water, the hard rock into a spring of water.
PSA 115:1 Not to us, Yahweh, not to us, but to your name bring honor, for your covenant faithfulness and for your trustworthiness.
PSA 115:2 Why should the nations say, "Where is their God?"
PSA 115:3 Our God is in heaven; he does whatever he pleases.
PSA 115:4 The nations' idols are silver and gold, the work of men's hands.
PSA 115:5 Those idols have mouths, but they do not speak; they have eyes, but they do not see;
PSA 115:6 they have ears, but they do not hear; they have noses, but they do not smell.
PSA 115:7 Those idols have hands, but do not feel; they have feet, but they cannot walk; nor do they speak from their mouths.
PSA 115:8 Those who make them are like them, as is everyone who trusts in them.
PSA 115:9 Israel, trust in Yahweh; he is your help and shield.
PSA 115:10 House of Aaron, trust in Yahweh; he is your help and shield.
PSA 115:11 You who honor Yahweh, trust in him; he is your help and shield.
PSA 115:12 Yahweh takes notice of us and will bless us; he will bless the family of Israel; he will bless the family of Aaron.
PSA 115:13 He will bless those who honor him, both young and old.
PSA 115:14 May Yahweh increase your numbers more and more, yours and your descendants'.
PSA 115:15 May you be blessed by Yahweh, who made heaven and earth.
PSA 115:16 The heavens belong to Yahweh; but the earth he has given to mankind.
PSA 115:17 The dead do not give praise to Yah,\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f* nor do any who go down into silence;
PSA 115:18 But we will give praise to Yah, now and forevermore. Give praise to Yah!\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f*
PSA 116:1 I love Yahweh because he hears my voice and my pleas for mercy.
PSA 116:2 Because he listened to me, I will call on him as long as I live.
PSA 116:3 The cords of death surrounded me, and the snares of Sheol confronted me; I felt anguish and sorrow.
PSA 116:4 Then I called on the name of Yahweh: "I beg you, Yahweh, rescue my life."
PSA 116:5 Yahweh is gracious and just; our God is compassionate.
PSA 116:6 Yahweh protects the naive; I was brought low, and he saved me.
PSA 116:7 My soul can return to its resting place, for Yahweh has been good to me.
PSA 116:8 For you rescued my life from death, my eyes from tears, and my feet from stumbling.
PSA 116:9 I will serve Yahweh in the land of the living.
PSA 116:10 I believed in him, even when I said, "I am greatly afflicted."
PSA 116:11 In my alarm I said, "All men are liars."
PSA 116:12 How can I repay Yahweh for all his kindnesses to me?
PSA 116:13 I will raise the cup of salvation, and call on the name of Yahweh.
PSA 116:14 I will fulfill my vows to Yahweh in the presence of all his people.
PSA 116:15 Precious in the sight of Yahweh is the death of his faithful ones.
PSA 116:16 Yahweh, indeed, I am your servant; I am your servant, the son of your servant woman; you have taken away my bonds.
PSA 116:17 I will offer to you the sacrifice of thanksgiving and will call on the name of Yahweh.
PSA 116:18 I will fulfill my vows to Yahweh in the presence of all his people,
PSA 116:19 in the courts of the house of Yahweh, in your midst, Jerusalem. Give praise to Yah!\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f*
PSA 117:1 Praise Yahweh, all you nations; exalt him, all you peoples.
PSA 117:2 For his covenant faithfulness is great toward us, and the trustworthiness of Yahweh endures forever. Give praise to Yah!\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f*
PSA 118:1 Give thanks to Yahweh, for he is good, his covenant faithfulness endures forever.
PSA 118:2 Let Israel say, "His covenant faithfulness endures forever."
PSA 118:3 Let the house of Aaron say, "His covenant faithfulness endures forever."
PSA 118:4 Let the loyal followers of Yahweh say, "His covenant faithfulness endures forever."
PSA 118:5 In my distress I called out to Yah; Yah answered me and set me in a spacious place.\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f*
PSA 118:6 Yahweh is with me; I will not be afraid; what can man do to me?
PSA 118:7 Yahweh is on my side as my helper; I will look in triumph on those who hate me.
PSA 118:8 It is better to take shelter in Yahweh than to put confidence in man.
PSA 118:9 It is better to take refuge in Yahweh than to put one's trust in princes.
PSA 118:10 All the nations surrounded me; in Yahweh's name I cut them off.
PSA 118:11 They surrounded me; yes, they surrounded me; in Yahweh's name I cut them off.
PSA 118:12 They surrounded me like bees; they disappeared as quickly as fire among thorns; in Yahweh's name I cut them off.
PSA 118:13 "You attacked me to knock me down, but Yahweh helped me.
PSA 118:14 Yah is my strength and joy, and he is the one who rescues me."\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f*
PSA 118:15 The joyful shout of victory is heard in the tents of the righteous; the right hand of Yahweh conquers.
PSA 118:16 The right hand of Yahweh is exalted; the right hand of Yahweh conquers.
PSA 118:17 I will not die, but live and declare what Yah has done.\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f*
PSA 118:18 Yah has punished me harshly, but he has not handed me over to death.\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f*
PSA 118:19 Open to me the gates of righteousness; I will enter them and I will give thanks to Yah.\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f*
PSA 118:20 This is the gate of Yahweh; the righteous enter through it.
PSA 118:21 I will give thanks to you, for you answered me, and you have become my salvation.
PSA 118:22 The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone.
PSA 118:23 This is Yahweh's doing; it is marvelous in our eyes.
PSA 118:24 This is the day on which Yahweh has acted; we will rejoice and be glad in it.
PSA 118:25 We beg you, Yahweh, please give us victory! We beg you, Yahweh, please give us success!
PSA 118:26 Blessed is he who comes in the name of Yahweh; we bless you from the house of Yahweh.
PSA 118:27 Yahweh is God, and he has given us light; bind the sacrifice with cords to the horns of the altar.
PSA 118:28 You are my God, and I will give thanks to you; you are my God; I will exalt you.
PSA 118:29 Oh, give thanks to Yahweh, for he is good, for his covenant faithfulness endures forever.
PSA 119:1 Blessed are those whose ways are blameless, who walk in the law of Yahweh.
PSA 119:2 Blessed are they who keep his solemn commands, who seek him with all their heart.
PSA 119:3 They do no wrong; they walk in his ways.
PSA 119:4 You have commanded us to keep your instructions so that we should carefully observe them.
PSA 119:5 Oh, that I would be firmly established in the observance of your statutes!
PSA 119:6 Then I would not be put to shame when I think of all your commandments.
PSA 119:7 I will give thanks to you with an upright heart when I learn your righteous decrees.
PSA 119:8 I will observe your statutes; do not leave me alone. \qa BETH
PSA 119:9 How can a young person keep his path pure? By obeying your word.
PSA 119:10 With my whole heart I seek you; Do not let me stray from your commandments.
PSA 119:11 I have stored up your word in my heart so that I might not sin against you.
PSA 119:12 Blessed you are, Yahweh; teach me your statutes.
PSA 119:13 With my mouth I have declared all the righteous decrees that you have revealed.
PSA 119:14 I rejoice in the way of your covenant decrees more than in all riches.
PSA 119:15 I will meditate on your instructions and pay attention to your ways.
PSA 119:16 I delight in your statutes; I will not forget your word. \qa GIMEL
PSA 119:17 Be kind to your servant so that I may live and keep your word.
PSA 119:18 Open my eyes so that I may see marvelous things in your law.
PSA 119:19 I am a foreigner in the land; do not hide your commandments from me.
PSA 119:20 My desires are crushed by the longing to know your righteous decrees at all times.
PSA 119:21 You rebuke the proud, who are cursed, who wander from your commandments.
PSA 119:22 Spare me from disgrace and contempt, for I have obeyed your solemn commands.
PSA 119:23 Though rulers plot and slander me, your servant meditates on your statutes.
PSA 119:24 Your solemn commands are my delight, and they are my counselors. \qa DALETH
PSA 119:25 My life clings to the dust! Give me life by your word.
PSA 119:26 I told you my ways, and you answered me; teach me your statutes.
PSA 119:27 Make me understand the ways of your instructions, so that I can meditate on your wondrous teachings.
PSA 119:28 I am overwhelmed with grief! Strengthen me by your word.
PSA 119:29 Turn from me the path of deceit; graciously teach me your law.
PSA 119:30 I have chosen the way of faithfulness; I have always kept your righteous decrees before me.
PSA 119:31 I cling to your covenant decrees; Yahweh, do not let me be shamed.
PSA 119:32 I will run in the path of your commandments, for you enlarge my heart to do so. \qa HE
PSA 119:33 Teach me, Yahweh, the way of your statutes, and I will keep them to the end.
PSA 119:34 Give me understanding, and I will keep your law; I will observe it with all my heart.
PSA 119:35 Guide me in the path of your commandments, for I delight to walk in it.
PSA 119:36 Direct my heart toward your covenant decrees and away from unrighteous gain.
PSA 119:37 Turn my eyes from looking at worthless things; revive me in your ways.
PSA 119:38 Carry out for your servant the word that you gave to those who revere you.
PSA 119:39 Take away the disgrace I dread, for your judgments are good.
PSA 119:40 See, I have longed for your instructions; revive me in your righteousness. \qa VAV
PSA 119:41 Yahweh, give me your unfailing love— your salvation, according to your word;
PSA 119:42 then I will have a reply for the one who mocks me, for I trust in your word.
PSA 119:43 Do not take the word of truth from my mouth, for my hope is in your righteous decrees.
PSA 119:44 I will observe your law continually, forever and ever.
PSA 119:45 I will walk securely, for I seek your instructions.
PSA 119:46 I will speak of your solemn commands before kings and will not be ashamed.
PSA 119:47 I delight in your commandments, which I love dearly.
PSA 119:48 I will lift up my hands to your commandments, which I love; I will meditate on your statutes. \qa ZAYIN
PSA 119:49 Call to mind your word to your servant because you have given me hope.
PSA 119:50 This is my comfort in my affliction: that your word has kept me alive.
PSA 119:51 The proud have scoffed at me, yet I have not turned away from your law.
PSA 119:52 I have thought about your righteous decrees from ancient times, Yahweh, and I comfort myself.
PSA 119:53 Hot anger has taken hold of me because of the wicked who reject your law.
PSA 119:54 Your statutes have been my songs in the house of my sojourn.
PSA 119:55 I think about your name during the night, Yahweh, and I keep your law.
PSA 119:56 This has been my practice because I have observed your instructions. \qa HETH
PSA 119:57 Yahweh is my portion; I have determined to observe your words.
PSA 119:58 I earnestly request your favor with my whole heart; be merciful to me according to your word.
PSA 119:59 I examined my ways and turned my feet to your solemn commands.
PSA 119:60 I hurry and do not delay to keep your commandments.
PSA 119:61 The cords of the wicked have ensnared me; I have not forgotten your law.
PSA 119:62 At midnight I rise to give thanks to you because of your righteous decrees.
PSA 119:63 I am a companion of all who honor you, to all who observe your instructions.
PSA 119:64 The earth, Yahweh, is full of your covenant faithfulness; teach me your statutes. \qa TETH
PSA 119:65 You have done good to your servant, Yahweh, by means of your word.
PSA 119:66 Teach me proper discernment and understanding, for I have believed in your commandments.
PSA 119:67 Before I was afflicted I went astray, but now I observe your word.
PSA 119:68 You are good, and you are one who does good; teach me your statutes.
PSA 119:69 The arrogant have smeared me with lies, but I keep your instructions with my whole heart.
PSA 119:70 Their hearts are hardened, but I delight in your law.
PSA 119:71 It is good for me that I have suffered so that I would learn your statutes.
PSA 119:72 Instruction from your mouth is more precious to me than thousands of pieces of gold and silver. \qa YOD
PSA 119:73 Your hands have made and fashioned me; give me understanding so that I may learn your commandments.
PSA 119:74 Those who honor you will be glad when they see me because I find hope in your word.
PSA 119:75 I know, Yahweh, that your decrees are just, and that in faithfulness you afflicted me.
PSA 119:76 Let your covenant faithfulness comfort me, according to your word to your servant.
PSA 119:77 Show me compassion so that I may live, for your law is my delight.
PSA 119:78 Let the proud be put to shame, for they have slandered me; but I will meditate on your instructions.
PSA 119:79 May those who honor you turn to me, those who know your solemn commands.
PSA 119:80 May my heart be blameless with respect to your statutes so that I may not be put to shame. \qa KAPH
PSA 119:81 I faint with longing that you might rescue me! I hope in your word.
PSA 119:82 My eyes long for your word; when will you comfort me?
PSA 119:83 For I have become like a wineskin in the smoke; I do not forget your statutes.
PSA 119:84 How long must your servant endure this; when will you judge those who persecute me?
PSA 119:85 The proud have dug pits for me, defying your law.
PSA 119:86 All your commandments are reliable; those people persecute me wrongfully; help me.
PSA 119:87 They have almost made an end to me on earth, but I do not reject your instructions.
PSA 119:88 By your steadfast love, keep me alive, so that I may obey the solemn commands that come from your mouth. \qa LAMEDH
PSA 119:89 Yahweh, your word stands forever; your word is established firmly in heaven.
PSA 119:90 Your faithfulness lasts for all generations; you have established the earth, and it remains.
PSA 119:91 All things continue to this day, just as you said in your righteous decrees, for all things are your servants.
PSA 119:92 If your law had not been my delight, I would have perished in my affliction.
PSA 119:93 I will never forget your instructions, for through them you have kept me alive.
PSA 119:94 I am yours; save me, for I seek your instructions.
PSA 119:95 The wicked prepare to destroy me, but I will seek to understand your solemn commands.
PSA 119:96 All perfection I have seen has an end; but your command is exceedingly broad. \qa MEM
PSA 119:97 Oh how I love your law! It is my meditation all day long.
PSA 119:98 Your commandments make me wiser than my enemies, for your commandments are always with me.
PSA 119:99 I have more understanding than all my teachers, for I meditate on your covenant decrees.
PSA 119:100 I understand more than those older than I am; this is because I have kept your instructions.
PSA 119:101 I have kept my feet back from every evil path so that I might observe your word.
PSA 119:102 I have not turned aside from your righteous decrees, for you have instructed me.
PSA 119:103 How sweet are your words to my taste, yes, sweeter than honey to my mouth!
PSA 119:104 Through your instructions I gain discernment; therefore I hate every false way. \qa NUN
PSA 119:105 Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light for my path.
PSA 119:106 I have sworn and have confirmed it, that I will observe your righteous decrees.
PSA 119:107 I am very afflicted; keep me alive, Yahweh, as you have promised in your word.
PSA 119:108 Yahweh, please accept the freewill offerings of my mouth, and teach me your righteous decrees.
PSA 119:109 My life is always in my hand, yet I do not forget your law.
PSA 119:110 The wicked have set a snare for me, but I have not strayed from your instructions.
PSA 119:111 I claim your covenant decrees as my heritage forever, for they are the joy of my heart.
PSA 119:112 My heart is set on obeying your statutes forever to the very end. \qa SAMEKH
PSA 119:113 I hate those who have a double mind, but I love your law.
PSA 119:114 You are my hiding place and my shield; I hope in your word.
PSA 119:115 Get away from me, you evildoers, so that I may observe the commandments of my God.
PSA 119:116 Sustain me by your word so that I may live and not be ashamed of my hope.
PSA 119:117 Support me, and I will be safe; I will always meditate on your statutes.
PSA 119:118 You reject all those who stray from your statutes, for their deceit is vain.
PSA 119:119 You remove all the wicked of the earth like slag; therefore I love your solemn commands.
PSA 119:120 My body trembles in fear of you, and I am afraid of your righteous decrees. \qa AYIN
PSA 119:121 I do what is just and right; do not abandon me to my oppressors.
PSA 119:122 Guarantee the welfare of your servant; do not let the proud oppress me.
PSA 119:123 My eyes grow tired as I wait for your salvation and for your righteous word.
PSA 119:124 Show your servant your covenant faithfulness, and teach me your statutes.
PSA 119:125 I am your servant; give me understanding so that I may know your solemn commands.
PSA 119:126 It is time for Yahweh to act, for people have broken your law.
PSA 119:127 Truly I love your commandments more than gold, more than fine gold.
PSA 119:128 Therefore I carefully follow all your instructions, and I hate every path of falsehood. \qa PE
PSA 119:129 Your rules are wonderful, that is why I obey them.
PSA 119:130 The unfolding of your words gives light; it gives understanding to the untrained.
PSA 119:131 I open my mouth and pant, for I long for your commandments.
PSA 119:132 Turn to me and have mercy on me, as you always do for those who love your name.
PSA 119:133 Direct my footsteps by your word; do not let any wickedness rule me.
PSA 119:134 Redeem me from human oppression so that I may observe your instructions.
PSA 119:135 Let your face shine on your servant, and teach me your statutes.
PSA 119:136 Streams of tears run down from my eyes because people do not observe your law. \qa TSADHE
PSA 119:137 You are righteous, Yahweh, and your decrees are fair.
PSA 119:138 You have given your solemn commands righteously and faithfully.
PSA 119:139 Zeal has destroyed me because my adversaries forget your words.
PSA 119:140 Your word has been tested very much, and your servant loves it.
PSA 119:141 I am insignificant and despised, yet I do not forget your instructions.
PSA 119:142 Your justice is forever justice, and your law is trustworthy.
PSA 119:143 Though distress and anguish have found me, your commandments are still my delight.
PSA 119:144 Your covenant decrees are righteous forever; give me understanding that I may live. \qa QOPH
PSA 119:145 I cried out with my whole heart, "Answer me, Yahweh, I will keep your statutes.
PSA 119:146 I call to you; save me, and I will observe your solemn commands."
PSA 119:147 I rise before the dawn of the morning and cry for help. I hope in your words.
PSA 119:148 My eyes are open before the night watches change so that I might meditate on your word.
PSA 119:149 Hear my voice in your covenant faithfulness; keep me alive, Yahweh, as you have promised in your righteous decrees.
PSA 119:150 Those who are persecuting me are coming closer to me, but they are far from your law.
PSA 119:151 You are near, Yahweh, and all your commandments are trustworthy.
PSA 119:152 Long ago I learned from your solemn commands that you had set them in place forever. \qa RESH
PSA 119:153 Look on my affliction and help me, for I do not forget your law.
PSA 119:154 Plead my cause and redeem me; keep me alive according to your word.
PSA 119:155 Salvation is far from the wicked, for they do not love your statutes.
PSA 119:156 Great are your merciful actions, Yahweh; keep me alive, as you always do.
PSA 119:157 My persecutors and my foes are many, yet I have not turned from your covenant decrees.
PSA 119:158 I view the treacherous with disgust because they do not keep your word.
PSA 119:159 See how I love your instructions; keep me alive, Yahweh, as you have promised by your covenant faithfulness.
PSA 119:160 The essence of your word is truth; every one of your righteous decrees lasts forever. \qa SHIN
PSA 119:161 Princes persecute me without cause, but my heart stands in awe of your word.
PSA 119:162 I rejoice at your word like one who finds great plunder.
PSA 119:163 I hate and abhor falsehood, but I love your law.
PSA 119:164 Seven times a day I praise you because of your righteous decrees.
PSA 119:165 Great peace they have, those who love your law; nothing makes them stumble.
PSA 119:166 I hope for your salvation, Yahweh, and I obey your commandments.
PSA 119:167 I observe your solemn commands, and I love them greatly.
PSA 119:168 I keep your instructions and your solemn commands, for you are aware of everything I do. \qa TAV
PSA 119:169 Listen to my cry for help, Yahweh; give me understanding into your word.
PSA 119:170 May my plea come before you; help me according to your word.
PSA 119:171 May my lips pour out praise, for you teach me your statutes.
PSA 119:172 Let my tongue sing about your word, for all your commandments are right.
PSA 119:173 May your hand help me, for I have chosen your instructions.
PSA 119:174 I long for your rescue, Yahweh, and your law is my delight.
PSA 119:175 May I live and praise you, and may your righteous decrees help me.
PSA 119:176 I have wandered off like a lost sheep; seek your servant, for I have not forgotten your commandments.
PSA 120:1 In my distress I called out to Yahweh, and he answered me.
PSA 120:2 Rescue my life, Yahweh, from those who lie with their lips and deceive with their tongues.
PSA 120:3 How will he punish you, and what more will he do to you, you who have a lying tongue?
PSA 120:4 He will punish you with the arrows of a warrior sharpened over burning coals of the broom tree.
PSA 120:5 Woe is me because I temporarily live in Meshech; I lived previously among the tents of Kedar.
PSA 120:6 For too long I have lived with those who hate peace.
PSA 120:7 I am for peace, but when I speak, they are for war.
PSA 121:1 I will lift up my eyes to the mountains. From where will my help come?
PSA 121:2 My help comes from Yahweh, who made heaven and earth.
PSA 121:3 He will not allow your foot to slip; he who protects you will not slumber.
PSA 121:4 See, the guardian of Israel never slumbers or sleeps.
PSA 121:5 Yahweh is your guardian; Yahweh is the shade at your right hand.
PSA 121:6 The sun will not harm you by day, nor the moon by night.
PSA 121:7 Yahweh will protect you from all harm, and he will protect your life.
PSA 121:8 Yahweh will protect you in all you do now and forevermore.
PSA 122:1 I was glad when they said to me, "Let us go to the house of Yahweh."
PSA 122:2 Jerusalem, our feet are standing within your gates!
PSA 122:3 Jerusalem, built as a city carefully planned!
PSA 122:4 The tribes go up to Jerusalem—the tribes of Yah—\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f* as a testimony for Israel, to give thanks to the name of Yahweh.
PSA 122:5 There thrones of judgment were set, thrones of the house of David.
PSA 122:6 Pray for the peace of Jerusalem! "May those who love you be at ease.
PSA 122:7 May there be peace within the walls that defend you, and may they have peace within your fortresses."
PSA 122:8 For the sake of my brothers and my friends I will say, "May there be peace within you."
PSA 122:9 For the sake of the house of Yahweh our God, I will seek good for you.
PSA 123:1 To you I lift up my eyes, you who are enthroned in the heavens.
PSA 123:2 See, as the eyes of servants look to their master's hand, as the eyes of a servant girl look to the hand of her mistress, so our eyes look to Yahweh our God until he has mercy on us.
PSA 123:3 Have mercy on us, Yahweh, have mercy on us, for we are filled with humiliation.
PSA 123:4 We are more than full of the scoffing of the insolent and with the contempt of the proud.
PSA 124:1 "If Yahweh had not been on our side," let Israel say now,
PSA 124:2 "if it had not been Yahweh who was on our side when men rose up against us,
PSA 124:3 then they would have swallowed us up alive when their anger raged against us.
PSA 124:4 The water would have swept us away; the torrent would have overwhelmed us.
PSA 124:5 Then the raging waters would have drowned us."
PSA 124:6 Blessed be Yahweh, who has not allowed us to be torn by their teeth.
PSA 124:7 We have escaped like a bird out of the snare of the fowlers; the snare has been broken, and we have escaped.
PSA 124:8 Our help is in the name of Yahweh, who made heaven and earth.
PSA 125:1 Those who trust in Yahweh are like Mount Zion, unshakable, forever enduring.
PSA 125:2 As the mountains surround Jerusalem, so Yahweh surrounds his people now and forever.
PSA 125:3 The scepter of wickedness must not rule in the assigned portion of the righteous. Otherwise the righteous might do what is wrong.
PSA 125:4 Do good, Yahweh, to those who are good and to those who are upright in their hearts.
PSA 125:5 But as for those who turn aside to their crooked ways, Yahweh will lead them away with the those who behave wickedly. May peace be on Israel.
PSA 126:1 When Yahweh reversed the captivity of Zion, we were like those who dream.
PSA 126:2 Then our mouths were filled with laughter and our tongues with joyful shouting. Then they said among the nations, "Yahweh has done great things for them."
PSA 126:3 Yahweh did great things for us; how glad we were!
PSA 126:4 Reverse our captivity, Yahweh, like the streams in the Negev.
PSA 126:5 Those who sow in tears will reap with shouts of joy.
PSA 126:6 He who goes out weeping, carrying seed for sowing, will return again with shouts of joy, bringing his bundles of grain with him.
PSA 127:1 Unless Yahweh builds the house, they work uselessly, those who build it. Unless Yahweh guards the city, the watchman stands guard uselessly.
PSA 127:2 It is useless for you to rise up early, to come home late, or to eat the bread of hard work, for Yahweh provides for his beloved as they sleep.
PSA 127:3 See, children are a heritage from Yahweh, and the fruit of the womb is a reward from him.
PSA 127:4 Like arrows in the hand of a warrior, so are the children of one's youth.
PSA 127:5 How blessed is the man that has his quiver full of them. He will not be put to shame when he confronts his enemies in the gate.
PSA 128:1 Blessed is everyone who honors Yahweh, who walks in his ways.
PSA 128:2 The labor of your hands you will enjoy; you will be blessed and prosper.
PSA 128:3 Your wife will be like a fruitful vine in your house; your children will be like olive plants as they sit around your table.
PSA 128:4 Yes, indeed, the man will be blessed who honors Yahweh.
PSA 128:5 May Yahweh bless you from Zion; may you see the prosperity of Jerusalem all the days of your life.
PSA 128:6 May you live to see your children's children. May peace be on Israel.
PSA 129:1 "Often since my youth they have attacked me," let Israel say.
PSA 129:2 "Often since my youth they have attacked me, yet they have not defeated me.
PSA 129:3 The plowers plowed on my back; they made their furrows long.
PSA 129:4 Yahweh is righteous; he has cut off the ropes of the wicked."
PSA 129:5 May they all be put to shame and turned back, those who hate Zion.
PSA 129:6 May they be like the grass on the housetops that withers before it grows up,
PSA 129:7 that cannot fill the reaper's hand or the chest of the one who binds bundles of grain together.
PSA 129:8 May those who pass by not say, "May the blessing of Yahweh be on you; we bless you in the name of Yahweh."
PSA 130:1 Out of the depths I cry to you, Yahweh.
PSA 130:2 Lord, hear my voice; let your ears be attentive to my pleas for mercy.
PSA 130:3 If you, Yah, would mark iniquities, Lord, who could stand?\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f*
PSA 130:4 But there is forgiveness with you, that you may be revered.
PSA 130:5 I wait for Yahweh, my soul waits, and in his word I hope.
PSA 130:6 My soul waits for the Lord more than watchmen wait for the morning.
PSA 130:7 Israel, hope in Yahweh. Yahweh is merciful, and with him is great redemption.
PSA 130:8 It is he who will redeem Israel from all his iniquities.
PSA 131:1 Yahweh, my heart is not proud or my eyes haughty. I do not have great hopes for myself or concern myself with things that are beyond me.
PSA 131:2 Indeed I have stilled and quieted my soul; like a weaned child with his mother, my soul within me is like a weaned child.
PSA 131:3 Israel, hope in Yahweh now and forever.
PSA 132:1 Yahweh, for David's sake call to mind all his afflictions.
PSA 132:2 Call to mind how he swore to Yahweh, how he vowed to the Mighty One of Jacob.
PSA 132:3 He said, "I will not enter the tent of my house or get on the couch of my bed,
PSA 132:4 I will not give sleep to my eyes or rest to my eyelids
PSA 132:5 until I find a place for Yahweh, a tabernacle for the Mighty One of Jacob."
PSA 132:6 See, we heard about it in Ephrathah; we found it in the fields of Jaar.
PSA 132:7 We will go into God's tabernacle; we will worship at his footstool.
PSA 132:8 Arise, Yahweh, to your resting place, you and the ark of your strength!
PSA 132:9 May your priests be clothed with integrity; may your faithful ones shout for joy.
PSA 132:10 For your servant David's sake, do not turn away from your anointed king.
PSA 132:11 Yahweh swore a sure oath to David, a sure oath that he will not revoke: "I will place one of your descendants on your throne.
PSA 132:12 If your sons keep my covenant and the solemn commands that I will teach them, their children also will sit on your throne forevermore."
PSA 132:13 Certainly Yahweh has chosen Zion, he has desired her for his seat.
PSA 132:14 "This is my resting place forever. I will live here, for I desire her.
PSA 132:15 I will abundantly bless her with provisions. I will satisfy her poor with bread.
PSA 132:16 I will clothe her priests with salvation, her faithful ones will shout aloud for joy.
PSA 132:17 There I will make a horn to sprout for David and set up a lamp for my anointed one.
PSA 132:18 I will clothe his enemies with shame, but on him his crown will shine."
PSA 133:1 Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brothers to live together!
PSA 133:2 It is like fine oil on the head pouring down on the beard— Aaron's beard, and then it pours down on the collar of his robes.
PSA 133:3 It is like the dew of Hermon which falls on the mountains of Zion. For there Yahweh commanded the blessing— life forevermore.
PSA 134:1 Come, bless Yahweh, all you servants of Yahweh, you who serve during the night in the house of Yahweh.
PSA 134:2 Lift up your hands to the holy place and bless Yahweh.
PSA 134:3 May Yahweh bless you from Zion, he who made heaven and earth.
PSA 135:1 Give praise to Yah!\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f* Praise the name of Yahweh. Praise him, you servants of Yahweh,
PSA 135:2 you who stand in the house of Yahweh, in the courtyards of the house of our God.
PSA 135:3 Give praise to Yah, for he is good;\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f* sing praises to his name, for it is pleasant to do so.
PSA 135:4 For Yah has chosen Jacob for himself,\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f* Israel as his own possession.
PSA 135:5 I know that Yahweh is great, that our Lord is above all gods.
PSA 135:6 Whatever Yahweh desires, he does in heaven, on earth, in the seas and all the ocean depths.
PSA 135:7 He brings the clouds from far away, making lightning bolts accompany the rain and bringing the wind out of his storehouse.
PSA 135:8 He killed the firstborn of Egypt, both of man and animals.
PSA 135:9 He sent signs and wonders into your midst, Egypt, against Pharaoh and all his servants.
PSA 135:10 He attacked many nations and killed mighty kings,
PSA 135:11 Sihon king of the Amorites and Og king of Bashan and all the kingdoms of Canaan.
PSA 135:12 He gave us their land as an inheritance, an inheritance to Israel his people.
PSA 135:13 Your name, Yahweh, endures forever; your renown, Yahweh, endures throughout all generations.
PSA 135:14 For Yahweh defends his people and has compassion on his servants.
PSA 135:15 The nations' idols are silver and gold, the work of men's hands.
PSA 135:16 Those idols have mouths, but they do not speak; they have eyes, but they do not see;
PSA 135:17 they have ears, but they do not give ear, nor is there breath in their mouths.
PSA 135:18 Those who make them are like them, as is everyone who trusts in them.
PSA 135:19 Descendants of Israel, bless Yahweh; descendants of Aaron, bless Yahweh.
PSA 135:20 Descendants of Levi, bless Yahweh; you who honor Yahweh, bless Yahweh.
PSA 135:21 Blessed be Yahweh in Zion, he who lives in Jerusalem. Give praise to Yah.\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f*
PSA 136:1 Give thanks to Yahweh, for he is good. (His covenant faithfulness endures forever.)
PSA 136:2 Give thanks to the God of gods. (His covenant faithfulness endures forever.)
PSA 136:3 Give thanks to the Lord of lords; (His covenant faithfulness endures forever.)
PSA 136:4 to him who alone does great wonders; (His covenant faithfulness endures forever.)
PSA 136:5 to him who by wisdom made the heavens; (His covenant faithfulness endures forever.)
PSA 136:6 to him who spread out the earth above the waters; (His covenant faithfulness endures forever.)
PSA 136:7 to him who made great lights; (His covenant faithfulness endures forever.)
PSA 136:8 to him who gave the sun to rule by day, (His covenant faithfulness endures forever.)
PSA 136:9 the moon and stars to rule by night; (His covenant faithfulness endures forever.)
PSA 136:10 to him who killed the firstborn of Egypt (His covenant faithfulness endures forever.)
PSA 136:11 and brought out Israel from among them (His covenant faithfulness endures forever.)
PSA 136:12 with a strong hand and a raised arm; (His covenant faithfulness endures forever.)
PSA 136:13 to him who divided the Sea of Reeds (His covenant faithfulness endures forever.)
PSA 136:14 and made Israel to pass through the middle of it, (His covenant faithfulness endures forever.)
PSA 136:15 but overthrew Pharaoh and his army in the Sea of Reeds; (His covenant faithfulness endures forever.)
PSA 136:16 to him who led his people through the wilderness; (His covenant faithfulness endures forever.)
PSA 136:17 to him who killed great kings; (His covenant faithfulness endures forever.)
PSA 136:18 to him who killed majestic kings, (His covenant faithfulness endures forever.)
PSA 136:19 Sihon king of the Amorites (His covenant faithfulness endures forever.)
PSA 136:20 and Og king of Bashan; (His covenant faithfulness endures forever.)
PSA 136:21 to him who gave their land as an inheritance, (His covenant faithfulness endures forever.)
PSA 136:22 an inheritance to Israel his servant; (His covenant faithfulness endures forever.)
PSA 136:23 to him who called us to mind and helped us in our humiliation; (His covenant faithfulness endures forever.)
PSA 136:24 to him who has rescued us from our enemies, (His covenant faithfulness endures forever.)
PSA 136:25 who gives food to all living beings. (His covenant faithfulness endures forever.)
PSA 136:26 Give thanks to the God of heaven. (His covenant faithfulness endures forever.)
PSA 137:1 By the rivers of Babylon we sat down and wept when we thought about Zion.
PSA 137:2 There on the poplars in the midst of it we hung our harps.
PSA 137:3 There our captors required songs from us, and those who mocked us required joy from us, saying, "Sing us one of the songs of Zion."
PSA 137:4 How could we sing a song about Yahweh in a foreign land?
PSA 137:5 If I ignore the memory of you, Jerusalem, let my right hand forget her skill.
PSA 137:6 Let my tongue cling to the roof of my mouth if I think about you no more, if I do not prefer Jerusalem more than my greatest delights.
PSA 137:7 Call to mind, Yahweh, what the Edomites did on the day Jerusalem fell. They said, "Tear it down, tear it down to its foundations."
PSA 137:8 Daughter of Babylon, soon to be destroyed— may the person be blessed, whoever pays you back for what you have done to us.
PSA 137:9 May the person be blessed, whoever takes and dashes your little ones against a rock.
PSA 138:1 I will give you thanks with my whole heart; before the gods I will sing praises to you.
PSA 138:2 I will bow down toward your holy temple and give thanks to your name for your covenant faithfulness and for your trustworthiness. You have made your word and your name more important than anything else.
PSA 138:3 On the day that I called you, you answered me; you made me bold and strengthened my soul.
PSA 138:4 All the kings of the earth will give you thanks, Yahweh, for they will hear the words from your mouth.
PSA 138:5 Indeed, they will sing of the deeds of Yahweh, for great is the glory of Yahweh.
PSA 138:6 For though Yahweh is high, yet he cares for the lowly, but the proud he knows from far off.
PSA 138:7 Though I walk in the middle of trouble, you will preserve my life; you will reach out with your hand against the anger of my enemies, and your right hand will save me.
PSA 138:8 Yahweh is with me to the end; your covenant faithfulness, Yahweh, endures forever. Do not abandon the works of your hands.
PSA 139:1 Yahweh, you have examined me, and you know me.
PSA 139:2 You know when I sit down and when I get up; you understand my thoughts from far away.
PSA 139:3 You observe my path and my lying down; you are familiar with all my ways.
PSA 139:4 For before there is a word on my tongue, you know it completely, Yahweh.
PSA 139:5 Behind me and before me you surround me and place your hand upon me.
PSA 139:6 Such knowledge is incomprehensible to me; it is too high, and I cannot reach it.
PSA 139:7 Where can I go from your Spirit? Where can I flee from your presence?
PSA 139:8 If I ascend up to the heavens, you are there; if I make my bed in Sheol, behold, you are there.
PSA 139:9 If I fly away on the wings of the dawn and go to live in the uttermost parts across the sea,
PSA 139:10 even there your hand will lead me, your right hand will hold on to me.
PSA 139:11 If I said, "Surely the darkness will cover me, and the light will become night around me,"
PSA 139:12 even the darkness would not be dark to you. The night would shine like the day, for the darkness and the light are both alike to you.
PSA 139:13 You formed my inner parts; you formed me in my mother's womb.
PSA 139:14 I will praise you because I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Your works are wonderful. My soul knows this very well.
PSA 139:15 My bones were not hidden from you when I was made in private, when I was intricately made in the depths of the earth.
PSA 139:16 You saw me inside the womb; all the days assigned to me were recorded in your book even before the first one happened.
PSA 139:17 How precious are your thoughts to me, God! How vast is their sum!
PSA 139:18 If I tried to count them, they would be more in number than the sand. When I awake, I am still with you.
PSA 139:19 If only you would kill the wicked, God; get away from me, you men of bloodshed.
PSA 139:20 They rebel against you and act deceitfully; your enemies tell lies.
PSA 139:21 Do I not hate those, Yahweh, who hate you? Do I not despise those who rise up against you?
PSA 139:22 I hate them completely; they have become my enemies.
PSA 139:23 Examine me, God, and know my heart; test me and know my thoughts.
PSA 139:24 See if there is any wicked way in me, and lead me in the everlasting way.
PSA 140:1 Yahweh, rescue me from the wicked; preserve me from violent men.
PSA 140:2 They plan evil in their hearts; they cause battles every day.
PSA 140:3 Their tongues wound like serpents; vipers' poison is on their lips. Selah
PSA 140:4 Keep me from the hands of the wicked, Yahweh; preserve me from violent men who plan to push down my steps.
PSA 140:5 The proud have set a trap for me; they have spread a net; they have set a snare for me. Selah
PSA 140:6 I said to Yahweh, "You are my God; give ear to the sound of my pleas."
PSA 140:7 Yahweh, my Lord, you are powerfully able to save me; you shield my head in the day of battle.
PSA 140:8 Yahweh, do not grant the desires of the wicked; do not let their evil plans succeed. Selah
PSA 140:9 Those who surround me raise their heads; let the mischief of their own lips cover them.
PSA 140:10 Let burning coals fall on them; throw them into the fire, into bottomless pits, never more to rise.
PSA 140:11 May men of tongues not be made secure on the earth; may evil hunt down the violent man to strike him dead.
PSA 140:12 I know that Yahweh will judge in favor of the afflicted, and that he will give justice to the needy.
PSA 140:13 Surely the righteous people will give thanks to your name; the upright people will live in your presence.
PSA 141:1 Yahweh, I am crying out to you; come quickly to me. Give ear to my voice when I call to you.
PSA 141:2 May my prayer be like incense before you; may my lifted hands be like the evening sacrifice.
PSA 141:3 Yahweh, place a guard over my mouth; guard the door of my lips.
PSA 141:4 Do not let my heart desire any evil thing or participate in wicked deeds with men who behave wickedly. May I not eat any of their delicacies.
PSA 141:5 Let a righteous man hit me; it will be a kindness to me. Let him correct me; it will be like oil on my head; may my head not refuse to accept it. But my prayer is always against their wicked deeds.
PSA 141:6 Their judges will be thrown down from the top of cliffs; they will hear that my own words are pleasant.
PSA 141:7 They will have to say, "As when one plows and breaks up the ground, so our bones have been scattered at the mouth of Sheol."
PSA 141:8 Surely my eyes are on you, Yahweh, Lord; in you I take refuge; do not leave my soul defenseless.
PSA 141:9 Protect me from the snares that they have laid for me, from the traps of those who behave wickedly.
PSA 141:10 Let the wicked fall into their own nets while I escape.
PSA 142:1 With my voice I cry out for help to Yahweh; with my voice I plead for Yahweh's favor.
PSA 142:2 I pour out my lament before him; I tell him my troubles.
PSA 142:3 When my spirit is weak within me, you know my path. In the way that I walk they have hidden a trap for me.
PSA 142:4 I look to my right and see that there is no one who cares about me. There is no escape for me; no one cares about my life.
PSA 142:5 I called out to you, Yahweh; I said, "You are my refuge, my portion in the land of the living.
PSA 142:6 Listen to my cry, for I have been brought very low; rescue me from my persecutors, for they are stronger than I.
PSA 142:7 Bring my soul out of prison so that I may give thanks to your name. The righteous will gather around me because you have been good to me."
PSA 143:1 Hear my prayer, Yahweh; give ear to my pleas. Because of your faithfulness and righteousness, answer me!
PSA 143:2 Do not enter into judgment with your servant, for in your sight no one is righteous.
PSA 143:3 The enemy has pursued my soul; he has crushed me to the ground; he has made me to live in darkness like those who have been dead a long time.
PSA 143:4 My spirit is overwhelmed within me; my heart is appalled.
PSA 143:5 I call to mind the old days; I meditate on all your deeds; I reflect on your accomplishments.
PSA 143:6 I spread my hands out to you; my soul thirsts for you in a parched land. Selah
PSA 143:7 Answer me quickly, Yahweh, because my spirit faints. Do not hide your face from me, or I will become like those who go down into the pit.
PSA 143:8 Let me hear your covenant faithfulness in the morning, for I trust in you. Show me the way where I should walk, for I lift up my soul to you.
PSA 143:9 Rescue me from my enemies, Yahweh; I flee to you to hide.
PSA 143:10 Teach me to do your will, for you are my God. May your good Spirit lead me in the land of uprightness.
PSA 143:11 Yahweh, for your name's sake, keep me alive; in your righteousness bring my soul out of trouble.
PSA 143:12 In your covenant faithfulness cut off my enemies and destroy all the enemies of my life, for I am your servant.
PSA 144:1 Blessed be Yahweh, my rock, who trains my hands for war and my fingers for battle.
PSA 144:2 You are my covenant faithfulness and my fortress, my high tower and the one who rescues me, my shield and the one in whom I take refuge, the one who subdues nations under me.
PSA 144:3 Yahweh, what is man that you take notice of him or the son of man that you think about him?
PSA 144:4 Man is like a breath; his days are like a passing shadow.
PSA 144:5 Cause the sky to sink and come down, Yahweh; touch the mountains and make them smoke.
PSA 144:6 Send flashes of lightning and scatter my enemies; shoot your arrows and drive them back in confusion.
PSA 144:7 Reach out your hand from above; rescue me out of many waters, from the hand of foreigners.
PSA 144:8 Their mouths speak lies, and their right hand is falsehood.
PSA 144:9 I will sing a new song to you, God; on a lute of ten strings I will sing praises to you,
PSA 144:10 who gives salvation to kings, who rescues David your servant from an evil sword.
PSA 144:11 Rescue me and free me from the hand of foreigners. Their mouths speak lies, and their right hand is falsehood.
PSA 144:12 May our sons be like plants who grow to full size in their youth and our daughters like carved corner pillars, shapely like those of a palace.
PSA 144:13 May our storehouses be full with every kind of produce, and may our sheep produce thousands and ten thousands in our fields.
PSA 144:14 Then our oxen will have many young. No one will break through our walls; there will be no exile and no outcry in our streets.
PSA 144:15 Blessed is the people with such blessings; happy is the people whose God is Yahweh.
PSA 145:1 I will extol you, my God, King; I will bless your name forever and ever.
PSA 145:2 Every day will I bless you; I will praise your name forever and ever.
PSA 145:3 Great is Yahweh and greatly to be praised; his greatness is unsearchable.
PSA 145:4 One generation will praise your deeds to the next and will proclaim your mighty actions.
PSA 145:5 I will meditate on the majesty of your glory and on your marvelous deeds.
PSA 145:6 They will speak of the power of your awesome works, and I will declare your greatness.
PSA 145:7 They will declare your abounding goodness, and they will shout joyfully about your righteousness.
PSA 145:8 Yahweh is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and great in steadfast love.
PSA 145:9 Yahweh is good to all; his tender mercies are over all his works.
PSA 145:10 All your works will give thanks to you, Yahweh; your faithful ones will bless you.
PSA 145:11 They will speak of the glory of your kingdom, and they will tell of your power.
PSA 145:12 They will make known to mankind God's mighty deeds and the glorious splendor of his kingdom.
PSA 145:13 Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and your dominion endures throughout all generations.
PSA 145:14 Yahweh supports all who are falling and raises up all those who are bent over.
PSA 145:15 The eyes of all wait for you; you give them their food at the right time.
PSA 145:16 You open your hand and satisfy the desire of every living thing.
PSA 145:17 Yahweh is righteous in all his ways and faithful in all his deeds.
PSA 145:18 Yahweh is near to all those who call to him, to all who call to him in trustworthiness.
PSA 145:19 He fulfills the desire of those who honor him; he hears their cry and saves them.
PSA 145:20 Yahweh watches over all those who love him, but he will destroy all the wicked.
PSA 145:21 My mouth will speak out the praise of Yahweh; let all mankind bless his holy name forever and ever.
PSA 146:1 Give praise to Yah.\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f* Praise Yahweh, my soul.
PSA 146:2 I give praise to Yahweh with all my life; I will sing praises to my God as long as I exist.
PSA 146:3 Do not put your trust in princes or in mankind, in whom there is no salvation.
PSA 146:4 When a person's life's breath stops, he returns to the ground; on that day his plans end.
PSA 146:5 Blessed is he who has the God of Jacob for his help, whose hope is in Yahweh his God.
PSA 146:6 Yahweh made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them; he observes trustworthiness forever.
PSA 146:7 He executes justice for the oppressed and gives food to the hungry. Yahweh frees the prisoners;
PSA 146:8 Yahweh opens the eyes of the blind; Yahweh raises up those who are bowed down; Yahweh loves the righteous people.
PSA 146:9 Yahweh protects the foreigners in the land; he supports the fatherless and widow, but he opposes the wicked.
PSA 146:10 Yahweh will reign forever, your God, Zion, for all generations. Give praise to Yah.\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f*
PSA 147:1 Give praise to Yah,\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f* for it is good to sing praises to our God; it is pleasant, and praise is suitable.
PSA 147:2 Yahweh rebuilds Jerusalem; he gathers together the scattered people of Israel.
PSA 147:3 He heals the brokenhearted and binds up their wounds.
PSA 147:4 He counts the stars; he gives names to all of them.
PSA 147:5 Great is our Lord and awesome in power; his understanding cannot be measured.
PSA 147:6 Yahweh supports the oppressed; he brings the wicked down to the ground.
PSA 147:7 Sing to Yahweh with thanksgiving; sing praises to our God with a harp.
PSA 147:8 He covers the heavens with clouds and prepares rain for the earth, making the grass to grow on the mountains.
PSA 147:9 He gives food to the animals and to the young ravens when they cry.
PSA 147:10 He finds no delight in the strength of a horse; he takes no pleasure in the strong legs of a man.
PSA 147:11 Yahweh takes pleasure in those who honor him, who hope in his covenant faithfulness.
PSA 147:12 Praise Yahweh, Jerusalem; praise your God, Zion.
PSA 147:13 For he strengthens the bars of your gates; he blesses your children among you.
PSA 147:14 He brings prosperity inside your borders; he satisfies you with the finest of wheat.
PSA 147:15 He sends out his commandment to earth; his command runs very swiftly.
PSA 147:16 He makes the snow like wool; he scatters the frost like ashes.
PSA 147:17 He dispenses the hail like crumbs; who can withstand the cold he sends?
PSA 147:18 He sends out his command and melts them; he makes the wind to blow and the water to flow.
PSA 147:19 He proclaimed his word to Jacob, his statutes and his righteous decrees to Israel.
PSA 147:20 He has not done so with any other nation, and as for his decrees, they do not know them. Give praise to Yah.\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f*
PSA 148:1 Give praise to Yah.\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f* Praise Yahweh, you in the heavens; praise him, you in the heights.
PSA 148:2 Praise him, all his angels; praise him, all his hosts.
PSA 148:3 Praise him, sun and moon; praise him, all you shining stars.
PSA 148:4 Praise him, highest heaven and you waters that are above the sky.
PSA 148:5 Let them praise the name of Yahweh, for he gave the command, and they were created.
PSA 148:6 He has also established them forever and ever; he issued a decree that will never change.
PSA 148:7 Praise him from the earth, you sea monsters and all ocean depths,
PSA 148:8 fire and hail, snow and clouds, stormy wind fulfilling his word.
PSA 148:9 Praise him, mountains and all hills, fruit trees and all cedars,
PSA 148:10 Wild animals and all livestock, creatures that crawl and birds with wings.
PSA 148:11 Praise Yahweh, you kings of the earth and all nations, you princes, and all you judges of the earth,
PSA 148:12 both young men and young women, elderly and children.
PSA 148:13 Let them all praise the name of Yahweh, for his name alone is exalted and his glory extends over the earth and the heavens.
PSA 148:14 He has lifted up the horn of his people for praise from all his faithful ones, the people of Israel, the people near to him. Give praise to Yah.\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f*
PSA 149:1 Give praise to Yah!\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f* Sing to Yahweh a new song; sing his praise in the assembly of the faithful ones.
PSA 149:2 Let Israel rejoice in the one who made them; let the people of Zion rejoice in their king.
PSA 149:3 Let them praise his name with dancing; let them sing praises to him with tambourine and harp.
PSA 149:4 For Yahweh takes pleasure in his people; he glorifies the humble with salvation.
PSA 149:5 Let the faithful ones rejoice in this honor; let them sing for joy on their beds.
PSA 149:6 May the praises of God be in their mouths and a two-edged sword in their hand
PSA 149:7 to execute vengeance on the nations and acts of punishment on the peoples.
PSA 149:8 They will bind their kings with chains and their nobles with iron shackles.
PSA 149:9 They will execute the judgment that is written. This will be an honor for all his faithful ones. Give praise to Yah.\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f*
PSA 150:1 Give praise to Yah!\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f* Praise God in his holy place; praise him in the mighty heavens.
PSA 150:2 Praise him for his mighty acts; praise him for his surpassing greatness.
PSA 150:3 Praise him with the blast of the horn; praise him with lute and harp.
PSA 150:4 Praise him with tambourines and dancing; praise him with stringed instruments and pipe.
PSA 150:5 Praise him with loud cymbals; praise him with high sounding cymbals.
PSA 150:6 Let everything that has breath give praise to Yah! Give praise to Yah!\f + \ft Yah is a short form of the name Yahweh.\f*